Hi, my name is Matthew Mercer. I'm a voice actor
and the Dungeon Master for Geek & Sundry's

Critical Role, and welcome to this fun video
series about tips and tricks for game masters and

dungeon masters alike. Today, I'm doing an FAQ,
because I get a lot of questions often over and

over again, and while I'd like to answer as often
as possible, it might be easier to put this up as

a video and answer some of them for the
foreseeable future.

[theme music]

Number one, is your Critical Role story a
homebrew? Yes! I created it from the ground up,

for better for worse, and I'm still developing it
as we continue playing the game. I did borrow the

Dawn War pantheon for it as it was a memorable and
relatable pantheon, but there are some

carried-over gods from Pathfinder because it's
where we began the campaign in Pathfinder, then

converted over to 5th Edition partway through.
It's all homebrew and if time allows me in the

future, maybe I'll put something out for you guys
if you want to play around in Exandria, so fingers crossed.

Number two, I see you looking in your app a lot
for reference during the game. What app do you

use? I use Fight Club 5 on iOS. It's a free
software. It requires a little bit of jiggering to

get it to work. You have to download some files
from certain websites and then upload it through

Dropbox onto the actual app, so it's a little
involved with the get-go and you have to do some

research on Google to find out how to actually do
it, but it's an extremely helpful resource for

quick reference to spells. You can bookmark
spells, creatures, abilities, see classes and

racial feats. It's great. So that's been very
helpful to me.

How do you make your maps? I start with
one-inch-grid easel paper. You can get these giant

pads of one-inch-grid easel paper on amazon.com.
Those are great, because you can just go ahead and

tear them off. They're semi-transparent, and then
I go ahead and get some Crayola markers and some

colored pencils and I build from there. I usually
sketch out on a small scale first just to get the

feel for how the battlefield will look and flow,
and then I draw the larger version and fill it out

and use that for the actual game. But there's a
lot of great software online that you can create

maps with. You can do things like Photoshop,
Campaign Cartographer, and if you play online for

Roll20, there are a lot of great software in those
communities that you can ask about that that help

you build your own maps to look really awesome and
professional too, so look into that.

Where do you find, or how do you make your
playlists for your game? I make them on iTunes and

I pull from many tracks. Mine currently are made
up from tracks from Platemail Games, which has a

lot of cool atmospheric and thematic tracks for
locations and terrain. I use Midnight Syndicate,

has a lot of great tracks. Incompetech from Kevin
MacLeod has a lot of great tracks, and all those

are royalty-free, meaning these are kind of the
only ones we were able to use when we started the

stream. Since then, I've gotten permission to use
the soundtrack from the PC game Pillars of

Eternity. I've gotten permission to use the Elder
Scrolls series soundtrack from Bethesda and those

have all been really cool. You guys won't have to
worry about that if you're doing home games. You

can use any music you want. You don't have those
limitations. But I highly recommend any of those.

You can pull soundtracks from Conan the Barbarian.
You can pull in Final Fantasy tracks if you want

to. Anything you want to, but what I do is I break
them down into playlists and each playlist is a

certain mood or location, so I have a playlist for
small battles, one for big battles, one for boss

battles. I have a playlist for creepy. I have a
playlist for really creepy areas. I have a

playlist for a mysterious scenario, I have
playlists when it's peaceful. I have playlists for

when you are in a town, playlists when you are in
a tavern. That way, it's just really easy for me

to just click any one of these playlists for a
specific moment. It takes a little bit of setup

and it's a lot of time put into it to make sure
you have that layout, but once you have it, as a

Dungeon Master or as a Game Master, it's really
easy to go ahead and switch pretty quickly based

on how the scenario's mood and dynamic has
changed.

Can I use or incorporate your characters or parts
of your world in my campaign? Sure! Yes, please go

for it. I find it flattering. I think it's awesome
that you would want to have tie-ins or elements of

your game crossed over to ours. Just be aware that
players' actions in our game can sometimes change

the world, so if you want to be playing alongside
our campaign, there's always a chance that things

can get weird down the road, so be prepared. If
you want to keep it consistent at least, make

things weird on your end as well. I don't know--
depends what the players do. But if time ever

allows, I would love to make a sourcebook, so
we'll see if that's ever a possibility if time

lets me. How can I improve my skills as a GM or a
Dungeon Master? First and foremost-- it's not

necessary but it's so helpful-- improv classes.
You don't have to want to be a performer or an

actor to take improv. It's helpful in so many
facets of your life. Just the idea of quick

thinking, of being able to "Yes, and" and work
with other people to make fast decisions and listen

very well and to be able to adjust on the fly.
It's helpful in everything from business to social

dynamics to so many things, but it tremendously
helps for dungeon-mastering or game-mastering your

role playing game. Also, you can look online for
great blogs from other Dungeon Masters. If you can

find it, I'd recommend looking up Chris Perkins'
DM experience blog for episodes-- you can find

them still, I think. There's some good stuff on
there. You can also look at a lot of the really

great real-play shows that are online, like
Rock'n'Roleplay, and probably some Acquisitions

Inc. stuff that Chris Perkins himself did at PAX,
or you could watch Critical Role! But you can find

a lot of cool little tricks and interesting
techniques that different Dungeon Masters use to

make their games immersive, and everyone's
different, everyone has their own method, everyone

has their really cool thing they do. So watching them
all, you can pick and choose and build your own

cool method.

Final question for this FAQ: How does this random
rule or feature work in D&D? Google. Google is

your friend. I know a lot of the rules in the
game, but there are also some that I'm even fuzzy

on. If you have any questions or any concerns or
anything you're not sure about in the game and how

the rules work, before you tweet it at me, look it
up. Put it into Google. You'll find a lot of great

people that have probably asked the same question
many times over and a lot of people that are

probably much more alert in the rule system than I am
who have answered it. So go ahead and just give a

search out there, find the communities that work
out there. Rpg.net is great about that and

Reddit's really great, and get those answers
there. And if you're still stumped, then go ahead

and throw it at me. Otherwise, I end up not having
time to answer all those tweets and I feel bad.

So, go to Google. It'll help you out.

That's all I've got for this FAQ. I might have
another one down the road in the future, depending

on how these questions continue and you guys have
really cool things you want to ask, so once again,

thank you for coming by. You can see more of these
videos on geekandsundry.com and I'll see you

around soon.