[cell phone dinging]

MARISHA and MATT: Eyy!

MATT: It's working again!

MARISHA: It's working again, sort of!

MATT: For the time being.

MARISHA: For the time being. See if his phone
makes any amount of difference. Is this light

blinding you?

MATT: No!

MARISHA: Is it bad? Would this be better? Let's
see here. Oh, that's a little bit better. We're

kind of rim lit.

MATT: To make it more--

MARISHA: It's kind of nice, it's more cinematic
this way.

MATT: Sure, we'll go with that!

MARISHA: I don't look as washed out, either, when
we use the light from behind as well.

MATT: You're fine.

MARISHA: Hi, guys. How are you doing? So it got
dark in the time that we went through Bakersfield

and Coalinga.

MATT: No, I think we're just now hitting Coalinga.

MARISHA: Oh my god, you're right! And it just
started smelling bad right as we said that!

MATT: Yeah, you summoned it. This is your fault.

MARISHA: I summoned it!

MATT: Oh, it's so bad!

MARISHA: It's so bad.

MATT: You might want to explain to people out
there what that means.

MARISHA: There's this part-- oof. Ooh, it's bad.
There's this part on the 5 when you're driving up

north through California-- oof-- and the name of
the town is Cow-alinga, spelled like C-O-A-L-I-N-G-A.

MATT: Coalinga, technically.

MARISHA: Coalinga, yeah. Coalinga. But everyone
calls it Cow-alinga because there's a bunch of

dairy farms.

MATT: Slaughterhouses. Lot of cows.

MARISHA: The entire town just smells like--

MATT: The worst.

MARISHA: Cow shit. Yeah, it just smells like the
worst and we're hitting it.

MATT: Not just cow shit. Cow shit mixed with the
physical embodiment of death. I don't know, it's a

terrible place.

MARISHA: Yeah. That's a really good way of putting
it, I guess. Sure. So, yeah, we're going through

Coalinga right now, so that's fun.

MATT: Indeed.

MARISHA: Someone asked how Fallout 4 was going,
actually, and we were actually just talking--

MATT: (evil laughter)

MARISHA: We were just talking a minute ago about
how we've reached that point, like we did in Skyrim,

where you start to see the world through a filter.
Aw, your mom just texted you. She said that they

love you.

MATT: Aw! I'll call them later on.

MARISHA: Yeah. As we've been driving, we'll see
things and be like, "Oh, look! That looks like a

"great place for a settlement. That would be
awesome."

MATT: Or, "I want to go explore that abandoned
building." No, that's a bad idea. I should not do

that. I'll get stabbed.

MARISHA: But it looks exciting.

MATT: Yeah. Skyrim was particularly bad because
you were so used to picking all the herbs and

flowers everywhere that whenever you'd be driving
somewhere, you'd see a nice little patch of flowers.

You'd be like, "Gather!"

MARISHA: Oh, harvest! Harvest, harvest, harvest!

MATT: It's bad.

MARISHA: Here, you see trash on the side of the
road. I wonder if Fallout will spark--

MATT: A generation of hoarders?

MARISHA: Aw, I was going to say a new generation
of people who go around cleaning trash off the

side of the road.

MATT: Both. I would love that. I would love to see
a lot of people starting their own junk-built

settlements after this. It becomes like East
Jesus.

MARISHA: Everything's recycled. Yeah.

MATT: Pretty fantastic.

MARISHA: We might be losing service again. It's
getting a little spotty, it looks like.

MATT: This may be folly if this fails, folks.
We're trying our best. As long as we have some

number manipulation, that's good, but if you have
any questions--!

MARISHA: It's okay. You drive, I'll look at it.
Man, we're trying so hard. Look, there it goes!

Hang in there, connection! Yeah, totally. Yes. But
yeah, no, I keep seeing power lines and abandoned

sheds and I'm like, "Ah, Fallout!"

MATT: It's good. It's a good game.

MARISHA: But if we lose you guys, we're sorry!