[intro music]

(applause)

MATT and MARISHA: (nervously) Hi.

MATT: We're doing better now. We just got food, so
that was the key to our evening.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Nice shirt.

(applause)

MARISHA: Miss you, Troy.

(laughter)

MATT: So hello everyone! How's everyone doing?

MARISHA: It just shocked me! Hi! It shocked me.
These are--

MATT: They're just small enough--

MARISHA: They're kind of barely useful. Just going
to put that over there.

MATT: We're going to build a better mic stand.
There we go. That's not precarious at all. That'll

last the entire panel without issue. Hi, welcome
to our panel on the tabletop renaissance, tabletop

gaming, and all points in between. Let's do some
introductions real fast!

MARISHA: Sure, you should start.

MATT: Okay.

(laughter)

MATT: My name is Matthew Mercer. I am a voice
actor from Los Angeles, California and long time

indoor kid. Yeah, you know what's up. Me and
sunlight didn't get along-- still don't get along.

I spent most of my life playing tabletop games,
running tabletop games, and am currently the

dungeon master on Critical Role.

(applause)

MATT: And Marisha!

MARISHA: Now that he said the magical words,
Critical Role--

(applause)

MARISHA: I can say that I play the half-elven
druid, Keyleth, in Critical Role, who--

(applause)

MARISHA: I am also a voice actor/person who does
things in the entertainment industry out of Los

Angeles. I am Margaret in the Persona franchise,
I'm Laura Arseid in Legend of Heroes: Trails of

Cold Steel-- longest name in history ever-- I'm in
Metal Gear Solid: Phantom Pain, and Battlefront,

and he's my dungeon master.

(applause)

MARISHA: And he was actually my first dungeon
master.

AUDIENCE: (oohing)

MARISHA: I know, I know. And then I went on, and I
had many other dungeon masters. And then I came back.

(laughter)

MATT: This is a good panel for context. Any other
panel, this would be a very different mood right

now. (laughs)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: That's next door.

MATT: Yeah, there you go. That's the 18-plus at
11:00.

MARISHA: Oh, I thought she was talking about the
vape show.

(laughter)

MATT: No vaping.

MARISHA: No vaping! (cries out)

MATT: I keep seeing those signs everywhere, and as
a person who in no way, shape, or form has ever

nor would vape, I--

MARISHA: It still makes you feel like you're in
trouble.

MATT: Yeah. "Well I didn't-- I'm not-- Why?"

MARISHA: "I'm not-- I wasn't!"

MATT: It's silently aggressive.

MARISHA: It's like when a cop gets behind you when
you're driving, and you're just like, "I'm just

"going to mess with my radio; I'm just going to act
natural. I don't have any reason to be concerned."

MATT: "My registration's good, and my tail lights
work. Why am I still nervous?!"

MARISHA: "Ten and two, ten and two."

(laughter)

MATT: (laughs) So this panel is to discuss, talk--
It's generally going to be a Q&A here. Talk about

all nerdy points of tabletop gaming, board gaming,
role-playing games, and all those fun little

adventures and experiences many of us have had in
our lives or are currently discovering and/or will

hopefully discover very soon. For those that
aren't aware, Critical Role is a show that we do

every Thursday--mostly every Thursday--on Geek &
Sundry's Twitch stream, where us and a bunch of

other voice actors play Dungeons & Dragons and
roll dice and have no idea what we're doing.

MARISHA: We have an insane cast of people, like
Laura Bailey and Travis Willingham and Liam

O'Brien and Taliesin and Ashley and Sam Riegel.

MATT: I'm just going to let you guys know right
now, we turned down playing D&D with a sloth today

to be here with you guys. That's how much we love
you.

MARISHA: That's true.

(applause)

MARISHA: And all of our bastard friends are just
sending pictures of them.

MATT: It's great.

MARISHA: They are like, "Look what you're missing,
guys." And I'm like, "I'm in Pittsburgh. I've got

"Primanti Brothers. Take that!" See! They
know.

MATT: I got the e-mail two weeks ago, "Hey, would you
like to dungeon master for a sloth?" I'm

like, "Yes! When is it?" "Friday, oh..." Ivan's
got this.

MARISHA: Can I just say the most ridiculous
conversations we ever had, though, in the Geek &

Sundry offices, were revolving around this sloth.
I was like, "Guys, we have to stop talking about

"him like he's a real person." It all started with
them going, "Well, when's the sloth going to come

"in?" And they were like, "Well, you know, we got
this call. We got to see what his schedule is and

see when he's available because we're going to
have to book him out. He's two weeks out." And I

was like, "What the-- I'm available next week.
I'm pretty sure the sloth works more than I do in

"the entertainment industry."

MATT: I place the blame squarely on Zootopia and
Kristen Bell.

MARISHA and MATT: Yeah

(laughter)

MARISHA: And then Ivan was like, "The sloth is
actually going to be playing a half-elven monk."

And I'm like, "What? Stop saying these sentences
like it's going to happen. It's weird!"

MATT: It's a wonderful time to be alive. This is
what Personal Singularity was referring to. "The

"Sloth Singularity." Anyway, we got a little
off-topic there. So we play D&D and I grew up

playing all sorts of RPGs, everything from GURPS to
Savage Worlds to Rifts and most of the Palladium

stuff, as broken as it was. It was wonderful, as
broken as it was.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Broken and fun!

MATT: Exactly! In a very fever-dream kind of way.
'Wormwood' is enough to say and you know what was

going on there. I've always found tabletop
roleplaying games, not only for me, were a great

place to explore narrative and just be more
comfortable as a person. I think a lot of my

social skills as a developing young adult I
developed through practice in roleplaying game

environments. And as a performer and a dungeon
master or game master, it was such a great

playground for me to learn about what I could do
and expand my repertoire and range. I owe a lot of

my current life to tabletop games, if not most of
it. I think one of the main times we ever hung

out was when I was asked to run a game of D&D for
you. Even you're part of that thanks I owe to

tabletop gaming. Too cute! So that's my tabletop
background, there. Marisha, you got started--

MARISHA: You were my first dungeon master.
I grew up in Kentucky. It's not that my parents

were trying to keep D&D away from me or anything
like that. My parents just also didn't have access

to it. And we didn't have access to it because
it's Kentucky. And you know--

MATT: It's the devil!

MARISHA: We're worshipping that cult shit. So
then I came out to-- but I grew up with Magic: the

Gathering and I played a lot of RPGs and I'm a
big Final Fantasy nerd and so I was always a video

game and comic book nerd beforehand, I just didn't
have the resources to play any tabletop games. And

then I came out to Los Angeles. And I was like
"Hey, Matt Mercer, will you run a D&D--" And I

thought you'd say no, and then he said yes.

AUDIENCE: Aww.

MATT: I ran it for you and your boyfriend at the
time.

MARISHA: That's true.

(laughter)

MATT: So watch out for the dungeon masters out
there.

(laughter)

MARISHA: And for all those aspiring dungeon
masters: it works.

MATT: It helps to be proficient in persuasion.
No, that was like a year and a half later, you

guys were already broken up before we started
dating.

MARISHA: Yeah, it wasn't like that.

(laughter)

MATT: But what's been really cool is-- I'm not
one of the OG roleplaying game-- There's a

generation of roleplaying game people, that were
there from the beginning, the old Gygax days, the chainmail,

pre-D&D days, where it began in strategic war
miniature combat and built onto the

roleplaying from there. I've learned so much from
people who came from that genre and it's been

really cool to watch, through our show, all these
different generations of "the old guard". And you

had the 80s revamp when GURPS got big and they had
this resurgence in roleplaying games in the 90s

during that Rob Liefeld era where Palladium got
really popular. Even then it was still a very

subgenre of entertainment and socially had this
stigma that had partially stemmed from a lot of

the early anti-D&D, "Demon magic!" stuff that
happened and also this idea that only kids who had

no social skills and didn't want to play with
other people. That was the idea and it was never

that. I never had that experience.

MARISHA: Yeah, in fact that's the total, exact
opposite, actually. How did that even happen? How

did D&D players get that reputation?

MATT: Largely because of media and because--

MARISHA: I mean, Tom Hanks and Mazes and Monsters.

MATT: To be fair-- and I don't want to get into
this too deep because it's a whole different

discussion-- but a lot of the American identity
and masculinity stems from this very "Go sports!"

and there's nothing wrong with that. You can do
both. There was this idea that if you weren't the

outdoor, varsity sports kid and you preferred to
sit down and make up fantasy worlds, then that was

considered the un-masculine thing and the
not-desirable thing and of course media pushing this

whole pocket protector geek feel in the 70s and
80s especially--

MARISHA: Big Bang Theory laugh tracks--

MATT: Sorry if you're a fan of the show. No. No
I'm not. There is no remorse. It is not for me,

that show. Power to you, not for me. There's this
trend that led to this unfortunate stigma that

the genre of gaming took on for a long time and
we're finally pulling out of that and I think a

lot of that--

MARISHA: Mainly thanks to Travis Willingham.

(laughter)

MATT: Well, he's definitely helped in that
regard.

MARISHA: The guy who played football in college--

AUDIENCE MEMBER: And Vin Diesel!

MARISHA: And Vin Diesel.

MATT: Vin Diesel was one of the breaking points,
too, and I think it's a combination of, one, pop

culture has become culture now. With all of these
major geek properties that everyone all of a

sudden is stopping and realizing, "Hey! We all
like Spiderman in this room? Oh, okay. All right."

MARISHA: That's cool, yeah!

MATT: We've had that wave of geek culture,
which has been really cool, and now we have this

new wave of storytellers. All the people that are
becoming the producers and writers and actors that

are inheriting the entertainment industry are all
the kids that grew up in the 70s and 80s.

MARISHA: Surprise! They're nerds!

MATT: Playing these games. Now you look at
the people that are creating all the mainstream

media entertainment and they're all of us. They're
all the indoor kids that, instead of going out and

beating up kids for their lunch money, they were
inside figuring out orc encounters in the second

level of the dungeon. Now they get to get paid for
that. We're at this renaissance period where, one,

it's becoming okay to talk about it and openly be
proud of the fact that you're a tabletop

roleplaying geek. And two, people who have always
been interested now have an open forum where they

can be like, "You know what, I've always wanted to
see what this was about and try it. Can we do

"that?" and there not be this negative backlash. And
it's been really, really cool to watch so many

people come into this genre of gaming.

[alarm noise in the background]

MATT: Run. Now!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: It's a patio door. Somebody
opened it. They didn't shut it right.

MATT: We're all safe now.

(laughter)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: It's not a fire.

MARISHA: Anti-life-shell. Boof. Meet within ten
feet of me. Whole room.

MATT: Fit everyone within ten feet of you!

MARISHA: Everyone within ten feet.

MATT: The best Katamari Damacy level ever. By the
way, guys, I want to point out this gentleman over

here who-- for those who saw the episode of
Critmas-- who gave me my Thordak. My colossal red

dragon right there.

(applause)

MARISHA: That's right! Applaud him! Now get up,
get out! No, no, them! I'd also like to point out

an amazing woman up front cross-stitching the de
Rolo crest. That caught my eye. I know it's a work

in progress. Is it okay if we see? Like what the
what?!

MATT: That's amazing!

MARISHA: What the what?! This is insane.

STEPHANIE: You can tell Sam, "This is cross
stitching."

MATT: (laughs)

MARISHA: Oh, my God!

MATT: Look at this thing, guys!

MARISHA: Oh my God, you guys!

(applause)

MARISHA: So nice!

MATT: This is actually a segue from my
conversation-- I'll come back to it. I also want

to point out one of the wonderful things about
this community that has blown me away is how many

people have gotten into the game and created
their own adventures, and share them with us on a

weekly basis and other people who have taken
inspiration from this silly little D&D show we do,

and do incredible crafts like this, and do
incredible artwork and write their own stories and

make their own little minis, and paint them and
send us pictures. The amount of creative

inspiration that's come out of this community is
amazing. That's a very valid example.

MARISHA: Yeah, it's so incredibly heartwarming to
see the whole art-inspiring-art aspect and that's

what I think is incredible about it. Like I said,
Critical Role would not be the show it-- We wouldn't

be Critical Role if it wasn't for the
Critters, and the fan art, and the fanfiction, and

the music. Every little piece of art that you guys
put out, we try and catch every single one of

them, and it's all just incredible.

MATT: It's Liam's obsession. He scours the
internet and collects it.

MARISHA: He knows almost all the artists. He knows
all of you people by name.

(laughter)

MARISHA: I'm not joking. I'm not joking.

MATT: Test him on it. Tell him we said that. If he
doesn't know it, he's disappointed you.

(laughter)

MATT: Don't, actually.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Not on Liam appreciation day!

MARISHA: Yeah, it's Liam appreciation day.

MATT: Show him your appreciation by asking,
"What's my name?"

(laughter)

MATT: Don't do that.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Francis.

MATT: There you go. To finish my point from
earlier, what's really cool about this emerging

period of time is you have old guard and new
guard coming together and discovering each other,

and you're starting to find that there is no real
difference in age and background. We had a few

Critters come by the studio one time and it was
their gaming group, and the gaming group was a 21

year old blond pop star, a 48 year old grey-haired
blacksmith, we had a mid-30's accountant lady, and

it was every single-- you couldn't have picked a
stranger eclectic group of individuals from

different walks of life that were sitting there
and geeking out so hardcore about their last

adventure they'd had together. I'm like, this. This is
the magic of tabletop gaming. Because when you're

all at that table, none of your background or
where you came from matters. You are all there

creating this experience together, and you will
remember it as vividly as any other experience

you've had in your life.

MARISHA: There is an amazing woman who wrote us, I
think, over our Facebook page not that long ago,

saying how she was thanking us: "I'm a 39 year old
mom. You guys convinced me that it was okay for

"someone of my age to play." She picked up a book
and started playing a game. That's what I think is

the most important lesson that we can learn out of
tabletop gaming in general. That there's this

really sad societal pressure that starts pushing
on you really hard when you're suddenly a child,

then you're suddenly an adult, and then when
you're suddenly an adult, it's like you're not

allowed to play anymore and you're not allowed to
use your imagination, and I think that's a really

sad travesty. I think it's important to remember
that adults can still play pretend, and make

believe, and that that's really important to our
mental health.

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Especially as stressful as life is as an
adult.

MATT: It's not that you can, it's that you
should.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: It's healthy, it's therapeutic. You learn
about yourself through play. You engage in

relationships and build relationships a lot
stronger than you would elsewhere. It's a

wonderful medium, and just one of many mediums,
tabletop gaming. One of many mediums that allow

you to reconnect with that sense of play as an
adult through all ages, and it's been really cool

to watch that come to the forefront of society
again. That makes me really happy.

MARISHA: Yeah, I've been saying this a lot here
lately where I've slowly started to realize,

especially with the show making our games weekly,
that Keyleth has totally infiltrated me a little

bit, and she's made me a better person. I
legitimately believe that 100%. I'm not like

Keyleth. There are so many ways that she's
different from me, but being her for so long has

taught me to empathize with people who are like
her, and she's influenced me, and I think she's

made me a more empathetic person. I think there's
a lot of important things that you can get from

roleplaying games that people don't talk about,
that we should.

MATT: Well, it's a new form of storytelling. I
have a very similar experience where, since we've

started playing weekly, I have become more
schizophrenic.

(laughter)

MATT: I talk to myself more when nobody's home.

(laughter)

MATT: Storytelling as a medium is as old as we've
had people. The idea of telling stories, and

creating mythology, and the elders of the tribe
telling the younger generation about the great

heroes of old, whether they be historical or
created. It's these heroic tales that inspire the

next generation to want to be better people, to
become these heroes, to try and make their mark on

the world for the better. And this is a medium for
all of us where we can create something, an aspect

of ourselves, that we don't get to explore and
experience often enough. And through these games

create a character and a personality that, even in
the smallest way, will help us be a better person.

Unless you're playing a totally shitty group of
evil characters, in which case it's just to blow

off some steam and that's totally cool. Don't let
that affect it too much. But yeah, it's a really

cool therapeutic medium in that way as well.

MARISHA: Yeah, it teaches you to think
differently, and to think how other people might

think. It breaks down the idea of the monomyth.
That there's a definitive line between good and

evil, which I've never believed. Even bad
characters, even the "evil" of characters,

generally have motives that are rooted pretty
logically. They're good lessons.

MATT and MARISHA: Yeah.

MARISHA: We should take questions because we've
just been rambling.

MATT: Sorry, just talking at you. We'll go
ahead and start calling folks for questions here.

We'll go ahead and start with this wonderful lady
over here in the green dress.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Um, so...

MATT: That's all right.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I tried to run a game once, and I
was awful at it, because I'm very much-- Okay,

I've planned all this stuff out, and of course
nobody does that.

MATT: We're all awful in the beginning for that
reason, don't worry.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: So what are things that you do
to prepare or prep for it, or exercises, or did

you do improv classes? What helps you to prep for
that?

MATT: It's funny you say improv classes. It's not
a route for everybody, but it is tremendously

helpful in so many aspects of life, in my opinion.
Taking improv classes, not just as an actor and a

performer, but as a person, it teaches you, one,
how to work really well in a group. It teaches you

a group dynamic and energy where it's all
collaborative.

MARISHA: It also teaches fast response time.

MATT: Yes! Very, very quick thinking. Thinking on
your feet when you're handed stuff you weren't

expecting.

MARISHA: Doctors will take improv classes to help
with their response time.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: No way!

MARISHA: True story.

MATT: So it helps tremendously in many social
aspects, but one of the largest rules of improv is

"yes, and," which is, you do not deny another
person's suggestion, you accept it, justify it,

and then add your own aspect to it. That whole
mentality is such a great way to look at most of

your social aspects in life, you know? Where you
can take someone else's idea, whether or not you

agree with it, in a group setting, you can take
what they have and add something to it to try and

bring it closer to where you wanted it to be, and
it's more a positive loop than a negative one.

MARISHA: And the reason why they do that, the
reason why that rule is there, is because as soon

as someone denies you something, it does two
things. One, it makes the person who was setting up

their point look like an asshole. You immediately
just rip the rug out from under them. Two, it

stops the scene. So say for example if I was like,
"Hey Matt, isn't this ski slope totally awesome today?"

MATT: "No, we're not on a ski slope. We're in a
store. What are you talking about?"

AUDIENCE MEMBER: (laughs)

MARISHA: Now I look like a fuckin' asshole!

(laughter)

MARISHA: And then you can't go anywhere from that.
That's it. Done. But if I'm like: "Hey, this ski

"slope totally crushes some snow." I don't ski.

(laughter)

MATT: "Yeah, but the snow's getting kind of slick,
it's almost like it's ice. Wait! This is an ice volcano!"

(laughter)

MARISHA: "What! Oh my god, I didn't know! You
didn't tell me we were going to the ice volcano, bro!"

MATT: "Happy birthday!"

BOTH: (yelling)

(laughter and applause)

MARISHA: See how, when you accept it and you're
just like, "Ice volcano? Totally!" It gives you

permission to keep going and it builds on it. I
think that's very important and people ask me all

the time, what was your worst DM experience? I was
playing a Buffy the Vampire Slayer tabletop RPG,

and I was a pyromancer. And I was used to him
being like, "How do you want to do this?" So I got

a kill, and in my head I heard Matt going, "How do
you want to do this?" But it was a different DM.

So I was like, "All right, so what happens is, my
character concentrates, and then a little fireball

"starts hovering over my head, and then it arcs
across the room, and then it just (poofs)

"and it lights the vampire on fire and they die in a
blazing flame of glory!" And the DM, I swear to

God, goes, "Yeah, you know pyromancy doesn't
really work that way." And I was like, "Well,

that's funny you mention that, because pyromancy
doesn't exist!

(laughter)

MARISHA: "It's not like a real thing. We're
playing pretend! Does it matter? Does it really

"ultimately matter?"

MATT: It's already dying!

MARISHA: It's already dead! Yeah! Does it matter
how I kill it?

MATT: (snide tone) Pyromancy is actually just, you
walk up to the vampire and light it on fire with

your lighter.

(laughter)

MATT: It's more of a skill trait.

MARISHA: His response was, "The way pyromancy
actually works, it's more that you just, like,

"meditate really hard, and then whatever you're
meditating on just bursts into flame." And I'm

like, "Hmm, that's so cinematic. So cool. I'm just
going to--"

MATT: Or so different from what you suggested.

MARISHA: Yeah! It's just giving people permission
to keep going. That positive loop, that positive

feedback.

MATT: Mind you, if she wasn't a pyromancer and did
that, you might be like, "Well, you don't really

"have any fire powers. That's a little weird."

(laughter)

MATT: There's a line.

MARISHA: If I was just a vampire slayer and didn't
have magical abilities, then that would be one thing.

MATT: If it's not going to change the way the game
plays, and it's cool cinematically, and it makes

the player smile as they describe it, there's no
harm in letting most aspects of that suggestion go

through. You can even tweak it a little and tone
it down as a reversal, but still maintain the core

of it and they still have as much fun. To get back
to your question, outside of improv? Who knows

what's going to happen in the game anyway, but you
want to be comfortable going into it. So best you

can, try and think of a number of alternate
possible routes. You don't have to flesh them out

dramatically. Even have a few little bullet points
of "Well if they go to the left, they might find a

"hive of ropers. Or if they end up going to the
right-hand side of this cavern structure, there's

"a long crevasse that leads down into a small
society of fungus men." And that might never

happen. But if they end up going to the right, you
at least have some idea of where they're going. It

also helps to have a little Rolodex or a
collection of note cards with random NPCs. If you

have free time, just create random characters.
They don't necessarily fit in your world, but if

someone all of a sudden decides, "I want to go ahead 
and see who lives in that far house you mentioned

"three sessions ago on the outskirts of the
farmland." You're like "Uh..."

MARISHA: Or Percy's like, "Where can I go to buy
black powder?"

(applause)

MATT: Another very valid example.

MARISHA: Or if, who was it? Laura Bailey is like,
"Where can we go to find a map? I need a map maker."

(sad noises)

MARISHA: Too soon, I guess.

MATT: Shh, no spoilers.

(laughter)

MATT: By the way, guys, this is a no-spoiler zone,
for the record. Best we can. We can talk about

loose things, but especially from the show last
Thursday or the past couple of weeks, try and be

careful not to spoil anything for those who
aren't completely caught up, because it is a lot

to catch up on for some people.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you. Five episodes left.

MATT: You're getting there! You're getting there!
Yeah, so loosely preparing where you can, but I

cannot stress enough, no matter how much you
prepare, you will always be caught off-guard.

That's what makes it fun as a GM. You kind of have
to embrace that chaos and just see where it takes

you. Spend some time throwing a couple things in
the world that could be tools in your toolbox if

that situation arises so you're not completely 
left out in the void. But through those

experiences you'll eventually become more
comfortable just seeing where it takes you when you

have no idea what's happening.

MARISHA: Next question.

MATT: You pick.

MARISHA: Your hand went up pretty fast. Yeah.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I guess we're doing the standing
thing.

MARISHA: Go for it.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: In my experience, having couples
in a game generally puts an expiration date on

that game. Nothing will stop a game faster--

MATT: I'm breaking up with you.

(laughter)

MARISHA: What was your question?

(laughter)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Your game is, like, 50% couples at
this point, unless I really misunderstood the

question and answer episode.

MATT: No, no, that's true. We are, Laura and
Travis, Liam and Sam.

(laughter)

MATT: Yeah.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: How does it change a session to
have people together in real life who aren't

necessarily together in the game? And then there's
role-playing. Because I've only had bad

experiences.

MARISHA: That's a great question.

MATT: Right. It depends on the people you're
playing with.

MARISHA: Real quick, for those of you in the back
who might not have heard the question, he said,

"How do you deal with couples in games because
that tends to put an expiration date either on the

"game or the couple."

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Or both!

MATT: First, you always have to gauge the players
who are involved. If there is a concern of player

characters forming romances, there being any sort
of role-playing-- like in our game, we have

Marisha's character Keyleth and Liam's character
have this Ross/Rachel romance that's been going

for a while now. We're also performers and we're
all friends beforehand and we're mature, and Liam,

even before he began to pursue this, came up to me
as the DM and was like, "I'm feeling Vax might be

"building these feelings towards Keyleth, but I
don't want to pursue that for the story if it's

"weird at all." I was like, "No, it's fine!"
because I know he's a performer and we know

that separation between character and
self. However, not everyone can be as mature or as

trained to be able to keep that separation and
some people might be more jealous than others, and

I have seen people who have been couples that game
together and it's caused strain. You have to gauge

the players and the atmosphere of who you're
playing with and if you don't think or have any

question that the atmosphere can facilitate that,
then just don't do it. It's not a necessary aspect

of it, or at least minimize it to the point where
it isn't this dramatic moonlit sequence where

they're both staring into each other's eyes and
you have to sit there and watch your wife bare

her soul to the guy who every now and then looks
over to you and gives you an eyebrow raise.

(laughter)

MATT: Sending you texts like, "I'm coming for her,
dude." That'll be a problem. You have to gauge the

maturity level, and if there is a concern, then
don't invite it. Because it gets messy. After

you've played with them for a while and you know
the dynamic between you as friends and in the game

and you feel it can be something that can be
done, by all means. If it's a newer gaming group

or people you don't have a long-term friendship
with and can get a bead on how they play with

that, you've got to be a little careful. As far as
DMing her, she does not put me on the couch when

bad things happen to Keyleth like the internet
seems to suggest.

MARISHA: Every episode, it doesn't matter. You
could do something amazing and, "Oh, Matt's

"getting on the couch tonight!" I'm like, sure.

MATT: It's a comfy couch.

MARISHA: It's a nice couch. He'll be fine.

MATT: Yeah, so--

MARISHA: There's a separation. We're not insane
enough, yet, to where we don't recognize the

separation. I'd be lying if I said we didn't
absolutely get 100% emotional about our characters

and about things that happen in the game, but I
think those two things aren't mutually exclusive.

You can get emotional and you can have feelings
and realize it's still just a game and it's still

just pretend. It still doesn't mean that this game
for us hasn't been incredibly important and even

though it is just pretend, it's not. It's so much
more at this point, it's hard to quantify.

MATT and MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: Boys, if you're playing in a game and your
girlfriend's the Dungeon Master, and your

character dies, it's not her fault, it's how the
game goes. Ladies, if you're the Dungeon Master

and you kill off your boyfriend's character, don't
do it just because you can.

(laughter)

MATT: That goes for both roles, but the idea is
just to respect the fact that death happens in the

game, difficult circumstances happen, and unless
you really did something to piss them off the week

beforehand and you think this is getting back at
you, in which case you probably deserve it and

just keep your mouth shut anyway.

(laughter)

MATT: Just understand it does happen, don't take
it personally.

Next question. Let's go in the back. Let's see,
you, sir, in the purple shirt rolled up to your elbows.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I guess this connects to the last
question. I've had a couple of games where I've

run where-- How do you manage in-game salt?

MARISHA: In-game assault?

MATT: Salt, anger.

MARISHA: Oh, salt! I was like, "What is happening
at your games?!"

(laughter)

MARISHA: Is it a fight club you're running? Jeez.
In-game salt.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Sodom and Gomorrah.

MATT: Roll save vs. pillar.

(laughter)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Sometimes people lose control of
the game and they don't play well with each other.

MATT: It does happen.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: In a college game, we had a lot
of different people playing, and it does seem hard

to get together. How do you manage people in that
sense?

MATT: Totally. It's a valid question. For those of
you who didn't hear it, how do you manage a game

for many different types of people who want
different things out of the game that can cause

conflict and sometimes strife within the gaming
group, both in-character and outside. One, I would

be very clear with all the players before you even
start playing what kind of game you want to run

and what everyone wants out of it. It's very hard
to run a game that will appease all the hardcore

roleplayer theater geeks and all the
number-crunching min-maxer Diablo-style kill shit

and take loot gamers. You can find a happy medium,
but you have to make sure everyone's on board for

the happy medium before you get too deep into the
game, otherwise you're going to have the party

trying to pull totally different things out and
frustrated when none of them are getting exactly

what they want. You want to make sure that
everyone understands what you're shooting for,

that everyone in the party expresses what they
want for their own fun, because even though it's

your game as the dungeon master, everyone brings
something to that table and you have to make sure

that-- it's part of your job to make sure everyone
is still having a good time. Two, not all gamers

will gel. There are plenty of people that I had a
good time playing with, but I know that these

gamers would do terrible in a group together. I've
run different sessions that have been fun, but I

know I couldn't cross those parties, they would
tear each other apart. That just comes from

experience and reading it based on those
discussions. Also, if any of these issues start

arising during the game, talk to them outside of
the game. After the session ends, if you felt any

of that weirdness? Shoot an email off, make a
phone call to them individually and be like, "Hey,

"I felt some strange stuff going on here. Do you
have any concerns or anything you want to talk

"about?" Just hear them out. Don't combat it, don't
try and shut them down. Just like any personal

interaction, listen to what their feelings are,
whether or not you agree with that. Let them get

it out and then from there try and explain as to
what you're trying to accomplish with the game and

ask the question: Is this the kind of game for
you? If the person can go ahead and work towards

that collaborative storytelling experience and try
and compromise for the sake of the entire story

and the group what it is they're selfishly wanting
versus what the whole group wants, then you'll be

fine. If not, maybe they need to find another
group that suits their needs as a gamer. There's

nothing wrong with that at all. I played many
games with people that-- we don't blend as gamers,

but I wish them well in the stuff they do and I
don't hold anything against them for that.

MARISHA: Going off on this as a player and talking
to everyone else out there who are players, be

kind to your DM. Not only because he can kill you
at any moment, but--

MATT: (laughs)

MARISHA: Respect your DM and respect the time that
has been put into these games because that's-- Not

necessarily this is what you were saying, but you
will sometimes have one of those players that gets

in and has that bull in a china shop type of
mentality and just wants to take over a little

bit. There's nothing wrong-- and to dungeon
masters, there's nothing wrong with being like,

"Hey, that's not cool." Because, do understand,
players, that your DM has put in probably at least

an hour if not more for each hour you play of game
time. There's already probably been ten

hours of prep before you even showed up to the
game. You're all there for fun, and it's a blast,

and it's awesome, but there is-- There's a line.
You guys know what I'm talking about, where

there's a line of being respectful and having fun
and joining in as a group as opposed to mocking it and--

MATT: Trying to get a rise out of the other
players or out of the DM.

MARISHA: Right, or trying to hijack the whole
game. Which is disrespectful not only to your

dungeon master but to everyone else who's set
aside time to be there. You know, D&D, it's co-op.

You're working to build a story together, and if
you can do that and find a group with good

chemistry that can do that, that's when you'll be
the most magical of moments.

MATT: If a person isn't working out, especially
if you're the one that's running the game, you

invited them to be a part of your story and your
gaming experience. If you don't think it's going

to work, you have every right to not invite them
back. If you explain to them why, and in a very

rational and very respectful way and they still
can't handle it, then that's just even more of a

clarification as to why this probably shouldn't
continue with them as part of your story. Most

times in my experience, people will be more
understanding and a lot of times they're just not

aware of it. Once that discussion happens, "Oh, I
didn't realize I was acting that way," or "I see

"what you're going with, okay. Now that I'm aware,
I'll try not to act that way anymore." I'm a firm

believer that 90% of the world's problems are
based on misunderstandings and through

communication we can solve 90% of the world's
problems. Doesn't mean we will, but I believe

that's the case. (laughs)

MARISHA: Yeah. Does that make sense? We're not trying
to be a fun police, there's a difference here, right?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Makes sense? Okay. Your fun is wrong!

MATT: I was waiting for it!

MARISHA: Yeah, I'm not trying to do that. Yeah.
Next question?

MATT: You pick.

MARISHA: Okay. You had your hand up, yeah.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: This actually ties into that last
question because you guys had that with Tiberius

leaving, and I know that it's been said it was a
very amiable leave and you guys are all still

friends and everything. Is there any chance that
he-- maybe not come back permanently, but would

come back and pop in and do a one-shot type thing
with you or come in and guest star for one episode?

MATT: (sighs)

(laughter)

MATT: Uh.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Next question!

MATT and MARISHA: (laughs)

MARISHA: "Yes, and."

MATT: I will say we have nothing but the utmost
respect and appreciation for everything that Orion

brought to the show and the character Tiberius in
the time that we did play together. However, some

circumstances in life come to a point where they
have to go their separate ways. He has his paths

to walk, we have our path to walk and we wish him
well and we've supported him through that entire

endeavor. What the future holds, I can't say. You
know, circumstances change, people change. I can't

tell the future, and I like to think the best of
most people in all circumstances. I can't give an

answer one way or the other. Whatever he's up to,
whatever the future holds, I wish him the best of

luck and we shall see. (laughs) Next question.

MARISHA and MATT: (laughs)

MARISHA: Yeah, you in the plaid. Yeah, you. Yeah.

(laughter)

MATT: There's a lot of plaid suddenly in the
audience.

(laughter)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: This is more of a DM question.
I'm a new DM, like very new DM.

MATT: Welcome, yes!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I'm currently homebrewing a
campaign in a world, and where did you even begin

building your world? What's the process that you
took doing that?

MATT: This is a great question. It's a great
question, because when it comes to especially

homebrewing your own content, and as a new DM,
there is nothing more frightening and daunting

than going "Okay--"

MARISHA: "I'm going to build a world!"

MATT: (nervously) "Where do I start?"

(laughter)

MATT: Really the biggest thing is to keep it
small. You're not building a world. You're

building a town. You figure out a couple shops,
build maybe a couple dozen NPCs, even less if you

want to for your first session. Come up with a
couple of factions, like a merchant's guild or

maybe a sailor's guild. Maybe there's a little
underground thieving ring or a fence that's

running a darker circuit in the town, and you
just really flesh out this one little town. You

can build two or three adventures that work just
in this town. Then once you play a game with your

players in that town, what they do, the actions
they take, will inspire you to think of other ways

that you can expand the world from there. That
town will give you as many sessions as you want

depending on how much further you want to go into
the rabbit hole of what this town has. There could

be a whole ruin beneath the town that opens up a
whole subterranean portion of the campaign and

they've still only been in this one town. Then you
can run ten, 12, 15 more sessions just in this one

little area. The inspiration of playing in that
one little town will help you build the world. It

will give you ideas in between. Then you expand to
one of the neighboring towns. Or one of the

neighboring deserts, which has what used to be a
town that is now completely buried by sand and

the elements have destroyed but there's now a tribal
society of rather unscrupulous individuals that

are now attacking caravans from the first town.
Now you can flesh out where that is. Maybe there's

a small society there where they're actually not
that bad, they're just trying to survive, but

they're being kept at bay by these subterranean
desert creatures that are now starting to rise up

and fight them and there's now three sessions you
could do with this other secondary desert

civilization. You've done 15 to 20 sessions with
two towns. You don't have to create-- I don't know

where any of that came from, by the way, you're
welcome to use it--

(laughter)

MATT: Those are just two locations where you can
run many, many sessions, and that's building your

own homebrew world, but you didn't have to create
the world. It's very hard for you to do that. When

I began running their game I created Stilben, and
that was for the first two sessions. Then I

created Westruun, and that was for the next six
sessions? These are eight-hour, big sessions that

we could only play once every four to six weeks. I
didn't have Tal'Dorei figured out until they were

getting towards the end of Westruun's arc, towards
the first Winter's Crest festival and I was like,

"Well, I've just started developing the Clasp, and
there's a part of the Clasp here in Westruun, but

"there's got to be a major center for the Clasp,
there has to be a major center to this continent

"they're on." And I began to develop Emon, and that
was leading up to the Winter's Crest festival, and

when they finished up with that then I could lead
them towards Emon, and then I began to flesh out

Emon, the more they expressed it-- It's very much
like trying to catch up to the train while being

on the tracks. You're like, "Okay, and then what's
happening next week? Next week I get the feeling

"they might want to go ahead and check out this
petting zoo." Sure, let's flesh out the petting zoo.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Now there's still so many times where I'm
like, "How did you know we were going to do that?"

You had some inkling that we were going to do that
and I don't know why you just-- someone just said

something in passing and you're like, "They're
going to do that."

MATT: Here's the key. I have six inklings of what
you're going to do and I try and prep some of all

six, so when you choose one of them I go, "I
totally had that figured out."

(laughter)

MATT: Or when you pick one that wasn't one of the
six and I go, (weakly) "Oh, I totally have that

"figured out."

(laughter)

MARISHA: My favorite was when we walked into the
back door of the Clasp, of the thieves' guild, and

he wasn't prepared for it. Man, that was a good
game.

(laughter)

MARISHA: That was great. We just were like, "Yeah,
let's do this now," and I'll still never forget

your face when you were like: (clicks tongue)
"Okay, then."

(laughter)

MATT: I'm like, yeah, we got like three more sessions
before they actually meet up with the Clasp and

there's stuff to-- Where are you going?

MARISHA: You're walking in the back door, all
right.

MATT: Come on in!

MARISHA: You're basically like, (knocks) "Hey! Yo,
what's up, Clasp?" Yeah, we kind of went in the

back door and-- Yeah. (laughs) And Matt rolls out
one of the dry-erasable marker grids and starts

just drawing the Clasp. "This is where the Clasp
lives."

MATT: We're going off grid, folks. We're off
grid.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Here we go. Good times.

MATT: So yeah. It's going to go weird.

MARISHA: I imagine it's kind of like when you
start an RPG and there's the fog of war on the map

and you kind of slowly flesh out the map as you
explore and you just kind of lose the map fog. I

think he builds in the same way.

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: I can't say. I'm not speaking for him.

MATT: Yeah. But if-- and you want to, just make up
names of places. Be like, "What's a good name for

"an elven city?" Zorvana.

MARISHA: Purvan.

MATT: Right? Thank you. What'd you say?

MARISHA: Purvan.

(laughter)

MATT: That's a real name!

(applause)

MATT: The elven city of Purvan.

(laughter)

MATT: And someone says, "Well, where are you from
sir?" and I'm like, "Well I hail from the elven

"city of Purvan." You just made up a name. But now,
down the road, you can then begin developing this

elven city of Purvan.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Perve-on.

MATT: And it sounds like you've had it planned
this whole time because the name was mentioned so

many sessions ago. It only really clarified a week
ago, but they don't know that. Magic!

(laughter, applause)

MARISHA: Next question.

MATT: Good question.

MODERATOR: Oh my.

MARISHA: (screams)

MATT: Okay, we've got to start moving through
these.

MARISHA: You pick one. Hey, do we have a panel in
after us?

AUDIENCE: Yes.

MATT: Curses!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes, you've got an 18+.

MARISHA: All right, let's keep going. Oh, we have
18+ after us?

MATT: We've got 15 minutes.

MARISHA: Okay. Go, go.

MATT: We're going to start trying to make this
go a little faster so we can get through as many

questions. You sir, right there in the gray. Yes,
you! Rise!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Well, just for those of us who
are running Curse of Strahd, do you have any

insights into Strahd?

MATT: (laughs)

MARISHA: Just for those who are running Curse of
Strahd?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Just-- Non-spoilers, I don't know
if you've read the scenario, but insights into the

character.

MATT: I haven't run the new scenario of course,
I've been running my own. But I've played through

two different Expedition to Ravenloft campaigns--
played through one and DMed one. Strahd's one of

my favorite villains. Probably one of the better
villains of all the D&D campaigns for a reason,

because he's a complicated villain. He has a lot
of very interesting things going on internally,

and not all encounters are about seeing Strahd,
fighting Strahd. He likes to talk, he likes to

learn, he likes to take beads on players. If
you're running a game for players, Strahd is

powerful, and yeah, if he showed up to start a fight
with the characters the second session in, he would wipe

the floor with them. But sometimes Strahd just 
wants to talk and find out about them, ask them

questions. Maybe see elements of their history
that nobody should know and start messing with

their head. Barovia's a strange place like that.
Secrets are traded around and god knows what the

Vistani manage to hear in the whispers while
you're sleeping and don't realize you're talking

in your sleep. Such a great place, Barovia. For a
dungeon master. Very scary place for a player.

(laughter)

MATT: It's hard to say anything without spoiling
the character because there's a lot of intricacy

to his backstory and a lot of-- his origin story,
his previous love, his brother. There's so many

aspects of it. But Strahd-- I will say Strahd is
more than the surface Dracula vampire you

think he may be. There's a lot going on there. For
good or bad, there's a lot going on. Next question.

MARISHA: Let's do in the back, yeah, you who's
going like this. Yes, you.

MATT: Sometimes it helps to flail.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: So I watch Critical Role and all
that and I was just wondering-- I was just

wondering as a DM and aspiring possible voice
actor-- I want to try to do that in the future--

What are some tips you could possibly give DMs as
well as actors?

MATT: Let's see. One--

MARISHA: That's deep. That's a big question.

MATT: I'll try and make this as concise as
possible. Improv classes once again, huge benefit

both as a player and as-- I mean, look at Sam. Sam
was at UCB for a long time and it shows. He is so

fast, even if he has no idea what the hell is
going on.

(laughter)

MATT: So it helps both sides, the player and as a
DM. It's great. But when you have free time on the

freeway driving in traffic, practice voices,
improvise dialogue yourself. I'm that crazy guy on

the road that's talking to himself and everyone
else is like, what the hell is that guy doing over there?

(laughter)

MATT: And if you like a voice you have never done
before, pull out your phone real fast and record 30

seconds of you just talking in it, because now you
have something to go back to to remind yourself of

that and you can assign that to an NPC. Every NPC
that I create, for the most part, I have in

parentheses at the end of their brief description
a texture, a pitch, and sometimes a dialect. So

I'll go through something like: relatively thick
Cockney, kind of gritty, low-pitched or be like high

and reedy voice, more of a thick Scottish,
slightly abrasive. And those are quick notes for

you to go back to. But you find those voices by
just practicing in the shower when you have time

to yourself.

MARISHA: You stopped and looked at me very
expectantly.

(laughter)

MARISHA: But yes, I'm ready. I've got something.
I'm good.

MATT: I thought you were ready.

MARISHA: I am.

(laughter)

MATT: The illusion, see?

MARISHA: Yes, see. I'm so ready, I'm on top of it.
I've slept today. What was I going to say? A lot

of people ask us-- We are not voice actors and you
guys do all these voices and I want to be a good

DM like you, but I'm not a voice actor, and you
don't have to have this insane Mel Blanc type of

range to be a DM. Just even changing the placement
of where the sound comes out in your mouth can be

enough of an identifier. So, for example, I
naturally speak at the back of my throat, which is

why I've got this gravelly thing, which my
theater teachers hated, but they love it in voice

over. But if you start moving it more to the front
of your mouth and you start dropping little bit

more breathy. I didn't change my tonality at all
and this is more where Keyleth lives. It's a

little gentler, it's a little softer, and you
don't have to necessarily change-- I don't have to

go to the crazy voice to do anything crazy. It's a
little bit of placement and that can just make a

world of difference. You talk all the time about
voicing women when you DM, and you don't have to

sound like an SNL character.

MATT: (high-pitched British voice) 'Ello! We've
all done this, DMs, any guy who has ever DMed has

gone Monty Python. Don't deny it. But sometimes
you just change in physicality too. I can be

talking to you like this, or I can be talking to
you like this and it's not changing voice, but

this is an entirely different type of physicality
to a character. If I'm talking the same voice like

this, but I'm standing up a little with the
shoulders to the front looking down at you, it's

an entirely different character. No change in
voice, but the physicality can impart an entirely

different delivery experience of that dialogue,
and engagement is the key. Even if your voice

doesn't change, engaging your players, making eye
contact. And I know it's hard, if you have notes

down there back and forth, but don't be afraid
that, when you finish your notes or when you're

feeling comfortable in those little NPC diatribes
to then engage once more, because it's that

contact that, one, helps facilitate the players to
be more into roleplaying in the moment-- it's the

difference between saying, the shopkeeper offers you a
better deal, then going, "I offer you a better

"deal." One's a little more engaging. It's the same
circumstance, but it just puts the player in the

moment where they're having to connect with you,
and that gives them permission to then offer that

same energy back. And not everyone's going to be
comfortable being that heavy into roleplaying.

Some folks, it takes a while to come out of their
shell and that's totally fine. Don't ever feel too

frustrated or exhibit that frustration on the
player, encourage them to be more comfortable. And

if they aren't, then it's totally fine, but you
present that opportunity for them to get out of

their comfort zone and maybe discover something
about themselves they didn't know they had, kind

of like I did. Anyway, that was a
roundabout answer. All right.

MARISHA: Oh, I picked him, so you pick.

MATT: Okay, I'm trying to go through this pretty 
quick round so that we can get through some questions here.

You have a very nice jacket and collar, I have to
call on you there.

MARISHA: Oh, you got like a cap thing going on. Is
there a presentation? I feel a presentation coming.

MATT: Oh no, this is from Fallout, yo. No,
MacCready wore that for a while.

MODERATOR: Oh my god, it is! Okay, go for it.

MATT: Question! Oh, we got Preston Garvey.

MATT: Don't you dare send me to another settlement
that needs help, by the way, guys. I've helped,

like, 60 of them, and none of them can take care of
themselves!

MARISHA: I was just there! Damn it! What do you
mean they're getting attacked by bandits?

MATT: I just killed the ghouls! Ugh. Sorry,
question?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I had a bit of a curiosity. As
I've never been one for DMing, it's never been my

style, but I get really into characters a lot. I
build characters in my free time.

MATT: Mm-hmm, totally. As a DM that's all I can
do.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I wanted to know, as voice
actors, have you ever walked into the booth, read

the script, and realized that you already made the
character you're voicing? That it's been so

drastically similar that you're like, "Holy shit,
next you're going to tell me that his mom is abusive."

MARISHA: Yes.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Do you have a story for it?

MATT: I have a few. I will say that a lot of the
characters that I audition with, and a lot of the

characters that I play in video games, started as
NPCs in my old campaigns. Both Eder and Aloth in

Pillars of Eternity were characters in an old
campaign I ran out of high school. A lot of

character voices and personalities, for me at
least, I transitioned from the game and then

brought into my toolbox as a performer. As far as
finding similarities in them, fantasy genre

especially has its own tropes. Like, "Oh my god,
his parents were also killed when he was young,

"and he's an orphan wandering the land with power?
Wandering swordsman in search of a purpose, that

"sounds just like every high school D&D character
ever." So yeah, I've definitely had similarities

in those regards.

MARISHA: Even the episode not too long ago, so it
shouldn't be huge spoilers, where Grog fought

Earthbreaker Groon, and he called upon Scanlan and
Vax, and he was like, "Where do you get your power

"from?" "My friends." Everyone was like, "This is
the anime episode!" It's so true. It's so trope-y.

(applause)

MARISHA: You just can't help it.

MATT: Some tropes come from honesty.

MARISHA: The power of friendship!

MATT: Craven Edge says otherwise. Good question.
You have a question, or we're running out of time?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: One question. What are your times
for your autograph panels tomorrow?

MATT: (Strongbad voice) Ah! That is a very good
question. I will look this up with the one percent

on my phone, so it doesn't die. Okay, so tomorrow
on Saturday, we have autographs at 12:30 to 1:30,

so long as you bring your stuff to get signed,
we'll go ahead and put our signatures on it. Even

have posters to sell with artwork from Kit Buss
and Critical Role. With Keyleth as an earth

elemental jumping onto K'Varn. It's really cool,
you should have one. Then on Sunday, we have our

autograph session from 1:30 to 2:00, so if you
don't come tomorrow, and you're running out of

time, come on Sunday.

MARISHA: Thank you, Strongbad.

MATT: (Strongbad voice) You're welcome.

(cheering)

MARISHA: Next question, yes.

AUDIENCE: Sing "Trogdor!"

MATT: (singing) Trogdor needs more questions
answered.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I have a question for Marisha.
What are your times, because I know they're

different?

MATT: (singing) They don't know what your times
are.

MARISHA: Oh, 11? Really? Apparently, I'm signing
at 11.

MATT: (singing) Marisha's signing at 11.

MARISHA: I just go where they tell me to go. Look
on your schedule. Next question. Yeah, you, doing

ninjutsu. Yeah, you. Yeah, the Rick and Morty,
yeah.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah, sweet!

MATT: Man, you are prepared for this panel.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: This is a week old and it's still
healing, by the way.

MATT: That looks awesome.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I knew I was going to come meet
you before this guy named Zombie, but I got a bit

more of a crunch DM mechanics question. I've been
DMing Pathfinder for a few months shy of a year,

now, and as far as the difficulty of combat is
concerned, I'm starting to find myself leaning on

certain things that may be a little less fun for
my players. Like, I've been dealing with the

tank-y warrior-cleric, with probably a little bit
more grappling than they'd like me to. I've been

leaning back on reach weapons an annoying amount.
So what do you do to bring a fair challenge

without recycling reach weapons, grappling, cheap
magic spells off a spontaneous caster... How do

you keep it interesting without getting cheap on
your players?

MARISHA: Good question.

MATT: Cheap works, on occasion, but also consider
not all challenges are based just straight on

damage mechanics and weapon use. Building
interesting and dangerous terrain for a battle can

make what seems like a relatively pushover combat
into a very, very precarious situation for the

party. If you have an entire group of individuals
that are across a giant chasm with ranged heavy

crossbows, and the party can't find a way to get
across because there's perpetual wind blowing up

across the way, but their bolts are enchanted to be
resistant to the wind as they're native to this

terrain, that's a way where the party's like, "Oh
crap! We're just being pegged to death from a

"distance." Or consider fighting in a place that
itself is very fragile, and the terrain itself is

collapsing during the battle, and elements of it
begin to fall away. We're talking top of Icecrown

style battle with Arthas. You know who you are, if
you got that reference, because we all suffered in

torment, trying to finish that fight. Or consider
there could be elements to the battle where the

enemy might be resistant to most damage until you
discover an aspect hidden within the room. Not

quite like a lich's phylactery, but something that
character is bound to that is hidden within that

battlefield, and so it's half a battle, and half
trying to search and scour the scenery for a means

of disabling their defenses. Or consider a battle
where there is a large amount of innocents that

are locked away, and the longer the battle goes,
collateral damage and innocents are being killed

until the party can try and spend more time defending
them versus just keeping the damage onto the enemy--

MARISHA: Who are you?

MATT: I'm coming up with different ways to fake
challenge! Or it can be enemies that, as opposed

to just dealing damage, it's a very, very high
piece of terrain and they are more about grabbing

and chucking things off of cliffsides. Or
elemental aspects-- a lightning storm where you

randomly start striking down on areas of the
battlefield, enemy or friend. I don't know--

MARISHA: No, keep going. I'm taking notes, mental
notes.

MATT: These are all just random things that could
add difficulty or challenge to a battle without it

just being a direct "my guys have longer weapons
than yours," which has its place, but if you find

yourself recycling those tropes too often, then
think of other things outside of just damage. And if a

creature you want them to fight doesn't quite have
an interesting toolbox, you can create abilities

that they have beyond what the book tells you.
Perhaps this one brand of giant scorpion lived too

close to a cluster of long-buried pure arcane
energy and is beginning to mutate these crystals,

and whenever anybody attacks them with a physical
attack it creates a feedback shockwave of arcane

energy that does additional damage. Think of
things that you can attach to existing creatures

to make them different.

I'm getting the wrap-up sign, which means I failed
at answering questions rapidly, but I think

that's the nature of the panel.

MARISHA: One more quick question, guys--

MATT: --and we're out of here. You pick.

MARISHA: Oh boy. You look so eager back there.
Yes!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I run an RPG group at my local
library. It's my first time DMing, so I'm really

nervous. Advice?

MARISHA: First-time DM tips?

MATT: "Nervous" is part of it. Harness the nervous
energy, that's what'll propel you when you're in

that seat of not knowing what's happening.
Understand that it's okay to be nervous and be

afraid of what's happening.

MARISHA: Use the adrenaline rush. The 
adrenaline is real.

MATT: Biggest advice I would give for this
circumstance is one, have a chance to chat with

the players enough if they're people you don't
know very well originally. Meet with them each

individually for lunch and get to know them as a
person beforehand so you kind of know what you're

getting into before you start the game. Also
asking them what they want out of the game so you

can tailor a story that hopefully they'll all be
happy with and get what they want out of the

experience. And kind of what I said before,
prepare as best you can, but don't over-prepare,

because if you over-prepare one or two major paths
and they end up completely veering off to the

side, you will have spent all those hours on
something that no one will ever see, and have no

idea what's going on. Or, conversely, try and find
ways you can redirect the story back towards what

you had prepared. So I would recommend, as opposed
to really fleshing out one path, loosely flesh out

multiple paths, and give that opportunity where
you feel like you have kind of a handhold on what's

happening, but not fully, as opposed to having a
really good grasp on one path and if it goes any

other way, you're screwed. I hope that's helpful.

MARISHA: Let's do one more quick question that's a
good closer. Let's do up front, yeah.

AUDIENCE: Mr. Mercer, what is your favorite part
of DMing? And, Ms. Marisha, what is your favorite

part of playing with Mr. Mercer?

MATT: You first.

MARISHA: My favorite part of playing Dungeons &
Dragons, just in general, as a part of any game,

is the ability to have dreams later on in that
world and be like, "Oh, shit, my brain just thinks

"that all actually happened, and I'm kind of okay
with that."

(laughter)

MARISHA: I'm kind of okay with looking back at the
memories of me having that Orlando trip in sixth

grade and the memories I have of fighting a beholder are
pretty much the exact same in my head, so... dope.

MATT: My favorite part of being a GM, or DM, is,
every time you describe to a player the reaction

to an action they took that they were trying for
and were successful-- or a massive failure-- but

some sort of reaction to an action that they attempted,
and watching them light up and smile as they

suddenly realize that they've driven a part of the
story forward, and they realize that they have as

much agency and the ability to create in the space
as you do, and that to me is above and beyond the

gift of being a DM, is watching other people create
in the world that you created.

AUDIENCE: Thank you.

MARISHA: Good final question! Thank you guys so
much.

(applause)

MATT: I know many of you didn't get your questions
answered-- Thank you. If you still have questions,

we have other panels throughout the weekend. You
can search the schedule. They're mostly voice

over-related, but if you squeeze in a roleplaying
game question here and there, we won't argue.

MARISHA: I have a Stunt Acting and Stunt Fighting
for the Camera panel tomorrow from 8:30-9:30, or

9:30-10:30, something like that. It's fun, and you
bring sweatpants and get active, because I teach

you how to punch. Don't punch each other,
though...

MATT: All right guys, thank you so much for
coming.

MARISHA: The morning one at nine got canceled
because you guys aren't going to be up, don't lie.

I'm not going to be, either. So it's the later
one, do the later one, not the 9AM one, I won't be there.

MATT: Thank you all so much. Have a wonderful
evening. We'll see you tomorrow.

(cheering)

[elevator music]