[jazzy music]

(cheering)

MATT: Hi! That was-- hi. Good to see you guys.
Thank you all for coming and welcome to our panel

about nerdy-ass discussions.

(cheering)

MATT: I'm going to take a seat for a second then
I'll probably sit at the front of the table

because this seems a little formal to me. Welcome,
everyone! If you don't know who I am, my name is

Matthew Mercer, I'm a voice actor, Los Angeles,
California and I'm a huge nerd. I've been playing

D&D and other RPGs most of my life, both video
game and tabletop. In recent years, have had

something weird in my life happen where a lot of
other people have gotten invested in my D&D game

as much as I am. It's been incredible. I have a
show called Critical Role.

(cheering)

MATT: Me and a bunch of other nerdy-ass voice
actors that are friends of mine began playing at

home privately years ago. We were asked to stream
it on Twitch, and now coming up on our third year

anniversary, which is crazy.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: And many more!

MATT: Yeah, we're not going anywhere. I mean,
cameras or not, we're still playing. For now,

everything's pretty kosher. We started streaming
it, and we were very scared to stream it because

when you put anything you love on the internet,
it's a dangerous, scary thing. Especially tabletop

gaming, which had been a largely misunderstood
genre and hobby for a long time. The idea of doing

it so people could just watch it seemed like
folly. I was like, "No one's going to-- this is

"just opening us up to everyone telling us how
terrible we are and to go away." Thankfully, I was

very wrong for the most part. There's still that
factor, and I expect that. That's fine. We've

found this incredible community of people that not
just watch our adventures and are invested in our

adventures, and do stories, and art, but go off
and create their own, which is what I really want

to was use it as a platform to empower other
people to create their own adventures. To find a

new hobby they didn't know was out there or didn't
understand how to get into or rediscover it

because it had been a long time since they had
given themselves permission as an adult to get

back into it. Then doing so, find incredible
friend groups and reconnect and find, in my

opinion, is one of the best uses of your social
time with a close group of friends. There's really

no experience like playing a tabletop RPG, in my
opinion. It's been really amazing and I feel like

a proud papa, seeing all these people out there
who either got into D&D through our show, or other

streaming services, got back into it and they tell
me about their adventures, and their characters.

Sometimes for a while. But that's cool, because
that was me for a long time. They'd be like, "You

"play D&D?" I'd be like, "Oh yeah! Let me tell you
about my dwarf fighter!" And they slowly turn to

ash. It's been incredible. These recent years,
seeing what this panel's about, the tabletop

renaissance that a lot of people are talking
about, is seeing what was once a hobby that had

difficulty being understood, being respected in a
lot spaces for many of years, and suffered through

the Satanic panic of the 80s. Recently, thanks to
things like Stranger Things, thanks to Twitch and

live play introductions that have been going for
years, even before we started ours, now into other

forms of media. It's not just being proud to say
that you play Dungeons & Dragons, but more and

more people are asking, "I've always wanted to get
into that. Do you know anybody or do you know how

I can learn?" We have great people like Matt
Colville who are doing YouTube channels about how

easy it is. Colville! How easy it can be to run a
game and all aspects of it that I know I was very

scared of as I got older and tried to dive into
it. Now is great time to learn and a great time to

dive into it. It's super exciting. I'm super
excited. We had a very emotional end to our last

campaign in October. A game that we ran for five
years. Characters that we, in many cases, lived

and breathed to the point where, you guys didn't
see this, but before we went live last Thursday,

Travis turns to Taliesin across the table and
went, "Percy, I was--" and we all slowly turned to

Travis and said, "Did you just call him Percy?" That's
when we realized that it was probably best that we

ended the last campaign. We're starting to blur
that line a little intensely. No end of shit going

forward for that. We ended that campaign, it was
very emotional. For the past few months, it's been

a lot of preparation for the new campaign, which we
just started.

(cheering and applause)

MATT: Which was a very nerve wracking experience
to build for. Are you--

AUDIENCE: Yeah.

MATT: Are you?!

(cheering and applause)

MATT: See now, that's some devil magic, right
there! We have officially, from what I've seen in

person, the first full cosplay of one of our
characters! Two days after!

(cheering)

MATT: Jester, stand up and take a bow!

(cheering)

MATT: What's your name?

ARIANA: Ariana!

MATT: Ariana, amazing job! That's awesome!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Take a picture for Laura!

MATT: Oh my god! Oh yeah! Actually, come up and
I'll take a picture and send it to her.

(cheering)

MATT: Just because watching Laura freak out is
amazing, as you've seen. She's so much fun to mess

with. Go ahead, take a pose for me! Yay! Thank
you!

(cheering and applause)

MATT: That's so cool! So stuff like this happens
now, which is crazy! To put it into context, we

were already pretty nervous going in because when
we started streaming originally, they were

characters we had already been with for a few
years privately, so everyone was very sure of

themselves and their personalities, story arcs, we
just opened it up to the world. This was a new

campaign. Everyone keep this in mind, too: while
we've been playing this for a number of years, for

a lot of our party, it was their second campaign
ever because the first arc, Vox Machina was their

first experience playing a role playing game. They
were super nervous about it!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Except for Liam!

MATT: Except for Liam, Taliesin, me, and Marisha,
everyone-- I'll switch over to this one. We're

sitting down at the table and getting ready to go
live. Everyone's getting jittery and they're

nervous going, "Oh my god, I hope it's okay!"
Travis goes and checks the numbers. Two minutes

before we go live and he's like, "There's 70,000
people on Twitch." We're like, "What?!" He goes,

"I think it's broken." Reloads it. "Oh, now it's
80." All of us turn pale. I'm curious to go back

and watch our faces on the VOD to see how all of
us are just--. "Hi." The total numbers came in

between the platforms; we were streaming to
Twitch, YouTube Live, and Alpha and I think,

between them all, we hit 125,000 people watching
live.

(applause)

MATT: Watching us play Dungeons & Dragons. As many
of you out there who grew up in the same era I

did, back when this thing was very taboo, it
wasn't an understood thing, that's crazy! That's

nuts! It's magical, it's perpetually magical.
We're so appreciative of all of you. Yeah. We

don't know what's happening. We have no idea.
We're just holding on by the seat of our pants and

hoping we don't mess it up. Thank you guys for
being so supportive, thank you guys for being so

awesome and as excited as we are. Then taking this
example of what we're hoping to be an example of

goodwill and sharing it with everyone else and
being a continuation and an extension of that.

Seriously, really appreciate it. Give yourselves a
round of applause for that!

(applause)

MATT: It's been a huge part of my life. I owe a
lot of who I am as a person, I owe a lot of my

career and my skills, socially, to growing up
playing role playing games. It's a space where you

can therapeutically work through issues in your
life through a character that's other than you.

It's a place where you can find empathy for
personalities and people and different walks of

life and in different situations than those you're
in.

MATT: It's a place to express frustration and
anger in a safe area sometimes, against monsters

and terrors and great evil bad beings that can be
a representation of the things in life that have

you hurting. It becomes a really great place for
you to learn empathy, to learn expression, to

learn to be open and be sometimes sensitive with
friends through the comforting veil of another

character. It's allowed me to learn a lot about
myself, how to be a friend, and it's led to many

of my standing friendships throughout my whole
life. I owe a lot to roleplaying games, D&D

specifically. That being the case, and having the
chance to do panels like this and meet guys like

you and hear your stories, that's nutrition to me.
It keeps me alive, it really excites me. Marisha

can say, it's exhausting in a weird way how
overwhelming the positivity is, and it's

absolutely wonderful. It's so much bigger than us.
We're a show, we're a group, we're a game group of

friends, but the community, the Critters, what you
guys put out there, it eclipses anything and

everything we do. Even if we may be the core of
that community, you guys continue to be what makes

all this worth it more. Not trying to get too
emotional, it's a lot of reflection, especially

with last week's first campaign-- conversation.
I've talked a lot at you for the beginning of this

panel, so I'd love to talk with you and have
questions to ask, ideas and stuff. We have a

microphone here at the front. If you have
something you want to discuss, bring it up to the

front here and get in line. Try and keep it
somewhat concise and not too many layered

questions, because I want to try and talk with as
many of you as possible. We probably won't be able

to get through everybody, but I'm going to try.
And please move at a respectable speed.

(chuckling)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you, Matt!

MATT: No worries. All right.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Matt, what time did your flight
get in on Friday?

MATT: My flight left at 8am Friday morning. I had
to wake up at 5am and after the nerves, the

jitters of that first campaign on Thursday, I
didn't get to sleep until about 3am. So I got two

hours of sleep, woke up, went to the airport, got
another hour and a half on the plane, because you

know, plane, and then went right to my signing
yesterday! I might seem a little frazzled over the

past 24 hours, I apologize, but there's a good
reason. Yeah, fair enough. Sorry! Hi.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, hello again.

MATT: Hello again. What's your question?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: We had similar conversations when
I could get ahold of you about-- with the

campaigns that I'm currently in, that I was
considering starting to stream them or record them

or novelize them or something. Because I didn't
get that idea until after the first session, which

is basically the session zero, where they had who
everyone is, meeting in the tavern, that sort of

thing. Are you still able to start something akin
to Critical Role, where you record for the games

even if you miss the very first session, because
the first session has all of the backstory stuff

so far?

MATT: Yeah. Most stories, whether it be film,
television, novel, the first chapter isn't you

learning everything about the characters. There's
a lot of elements of their life that's already

happened, and part of, for the reader, what's
interesting is to fill those gaps. Like for the

new campaign, I did a session zero with all the
players before we started streaming it. It was a

prelude that was both a space for them to feel
comfortable, this is a little private thing that

they have for themselves to figure out their
character. That way when we come into the session

that first episode, you already feel like it's a
lived-in world as opposed to everyone awkwardly

going, "Hi, I'm a tiefling." There's a little bit
of that too, but that happens with any beginning

of the campaign. Don't feel like you have to
front-load all of the exposition or all of the

information, all of the backstories up front. If
anything, it makes the world feel more like you're

getting a glimpse at a living space, if people
continue to act and be without all of the

information available to you. It's already
happened and it's still happening. Don't feel like

that should be constraining to you.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: And also, aside from D&D, which
is the d20 system, do you have any other systems

you like in terms of tabletop games, and why?

MATT: This is a whole long discussion, and I'm
trying to keep it concise so we can get to the

next question. The Fate system I've enjoyed a lot
of times. I've played Traveler and Diaspora, which

are both fun games, both hard sci-fi and weird
sci-fi. Especially Traveler, because it's one of

the few games where you can die in character
creation. Because you get to choose your

character's path in life, what jobs they do, and
if they go into more dangerous jobs, they learn

better skills to start with, but there's a chance
that if you have a dangerous job, you'll get

killed on the job and have to start over. It's
kind of fucked. The old school Deadlands system,

which is phenomenal. It's a little more
complicated. It's not as streamlined as the newer

one, but the idea that casting spells is you
playing a card game with devils and demons, and

the better hands you get against the DM or the GM
of the game who's playing the devil's side gets

you different abilities based on the spell you
want to do. It's got a lot of really cool old

Western elements. There's also the Amber Diceless
Roleplaying Game when I was in high school based

off the Amber series, and that was interesting but
that takes a lot of trust because without dice,

it's a lot of you all deciding together what
succeeds and what fails. That can lead to

arguments, I learned very quickly, if everyone
isn't on the same page and trusts each other at

the table. Those are a few examples of what I've
enjoyed. I've heard good things about the newer

Star Wars systems. Haven't tried that yet. Anyway,
I have to get to the next question, but thank you, man!

ORGANIZER: Real quick guys, keep it to one
question only. If you have a second question, go

to the end of the line and then ask your second
one.

MATT: Hello!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello! Oh gosh, that was loud. I
just wanted to say that I really look up to you

and your storytelling. Your descriptions and stuff
is amazing. I wanted to know-- I'm sorry if this

has been asked before, but do you have any tips or
advice for anyone, writers or bored GMs,

storytellers, in how you come up with such great
descriptions and such vivid images of things that

are all in your head?

MATT: For one, reading a lot. It helps expand your
vocabulary. There's a lot of words that you'll

come across in books and be like, "I don't know
what that means." You look it up and be like,

"That's cool, and now I know that word and I can
use it." That was huge for me growing up and

continues to be whenever I have time to read. A
cool way to keep that sharp moving forward. Also

consider when you're setting a scene, it's not
just visuals. Consider all the senses. Consider

ways that you can set a scene with both what
they're seeing, what the temperature of the room

is, if there's a certain acrid or iron-like taste
in the air, or if it's very cold and causes their

teeth to feel pain when they breathe in. Is there
a specific sound of distant shaking, or perhaps

water dripping off wall condensation? Think of how
the different senses are affected when you set a

scene, and that helps immerse your players or
whoever's reading your story as you get into it.

That's a big topic, but from running a game
standpoint, I find those are good little tricks

whenever you open a new sequence, a new location
for the players to immediately pull them into the

world and help them imagine exactly where they
are. That helps the immersion, it helps the

players get ready to dive into it in character.
That's a really quick tip that I hope will be helpful.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you.

MATT: No worries, thank you.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: How's it going?

MATT: Good! How're you doing?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good. In the new campaign when
your players are talking to you about the new characters--

MATT: Yes, which by the way, I do want try and
avoid spoilers, in case people haven't seen the

new episode.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: And they came to you with their
ideas, did any of them come to you with an idea

that made you go, "Ooh, hmm, no?"

MATT: Generally, no. Not my players. I've had that
happen in the past. If a player wants to play a

character of a certain kind, I'm not going to tell
them not to. I might help them finesse it, or let

them know in some situations where it's going to
be difficult based on the world we're playing in,

or they don't understand issues that might come
up. For instance, if somebody was like, "I have a

"charisma of eight. I want to be a warlock!" I'd be
like, "Maybe let's try to mix up those stats a

"little." There's certain concepts that may not be
the strongest concept. In fact, we have a few race

and class combinations in the new campaign that
are by no means optimal when you consider

min-maxing character strengths. But that's also
cool because you get combinations you wouldn't

expect. To me, it's more important to create a
character idea then it is to create something

that's optimally powerful. If you can do both and
that's your game, that's fun too. But I don't

think that should hinder you necessarily. There's
never been a concept that I've shot down. I can

help players finesse it if they're unsure, or if
they're trying to feel out how this would fit in

the world, then I'll work with them, and we'll
talk over their story and talk about their

abilities and how that might fit for their
narrative down the road. It's rare that I shoot

something down unless the person is a real dick.
"My concept is a person that sets children on

"fire!" I'm like, "Eh, I don't know if that's going
to play well with the rest of the group, buddy."

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Lasts one second.

MATT: Yeah. Thank you.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hey, Mercer.

MATT: Hi!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I have a question. What do you
think was the worst decision that Vox Machina ever did?

MATT: Ooh, personally. That's a lot of
decisions. Let's see.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Goldfish!

MATT: That's a member of Vox Machina. Vox Machina
as a whole? Oh, man. To be perfectly honest, not

checking for traps at the tomb of the Raven Queen.
Because that led to a chain of events that led to

a very sad story.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: It was really bad.

MATT: Yeah, but it made for a great narrative. Not
all things have to be positive, there are a lot of

things to gain. Yeah, there's always and urge as a
GM to be like, "I want this to end up okay. I want

it to be all right." A lot of times, that's a good
thing, but some stories are powerful because it

doesn't work out in the most positive light.
That's realistic, and sometimes that's a very

healing experience to go through that. I know it
was hard for some people in the game to deal with

eventualities in the narrative and missed
opportunities, to be vague. But overall, I think

it made for a more impactful story and memorable
one. It's an example of sometimes, you have to let

the narrative guide where it's going as opposed to
try and shoehorn a happy ending. Unless your

players are all in a really bad place in the world
and you're like, "Uh, and everything's okay!"

Because at the same time, you want your players to
have a good time.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you.

MATT: Thank you.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: That's not happening. Sorry. Hi,
I am asking you for advice for both my daughter

and I as a player and gamemaster. When you get two
people in your group who all of a sudden start--

they're 40 years old, but they start acting like
13-year-old middle school boys on crack-- and it's

all fun and games until they almost get you
killed, or as in my daughter's case, her character

killed on stupid side things. How do you rein that
back in? You don't want to be a killjoy and say,

"Okay, no fun, no jokes," but how do you rein it
back in so they're focusing on the group as a

whole and not dying in a bar fight?

MATT: Couple things. One, if it's really hampering
the narrative and it's preventing a lot of people

from having a good time, talk with them about it
outside of the game. After a session where it gets

particularly bad, you can be like, "Hey guys,
before we leave," or, "I'm going to take a moment

here, I just want to talk," for the sake-- Any
time you're at the table, you try and find a

balance between being respectful of everyone
else's good time and not trying to derail it

constantly before other people want to go. For the
most part, a lot of times, because it is a very

free environment, people will want to be impulsive
and, "I'm going to do what I want!" That's fine to

a certain extent, but you do have to be respectful
of everyone else at the table. Otherwise, you

probably won't be invited back to the table.
You're supposed to play the game as a

collaborative experience. Even though there can be
tension, there can be moments where there can be

conflict inside. People can be selfish if it's in
character, but if it's so much to the point where

nobody else is having fun and that's a problem
with the way you're playing the game, maybe this

table isn't where you should be playing. There are
tables that that might work at. There might be a

bunch of powergamers who are down with the idea of
being crazy and weird. I've had those games too

and they're fun, but you have to make sure
everybody's on the same page. Talk with them about

it, and if they continue to do it, or you want to
teach them a lesson, sometimes make those choices

lead to a very bad-- not TPK scenario, but if
they're getting in serious bar fights all the

time, they're going to get arrested. They're going
to get imprisoned. They're going to get

interrogated. They're going to get branded as a
criminal on the shoulder. Whoever the head of the

guard there is going to take a personal liking to
make sure that he makes their life miserable. Now

they're a watched individual. Every town they go
into, everyone seeing their face grimaces. Now

it's a, "Oh my god, there's consequences to your
actions!" That's a way to do it too, where you

don't have to kill the character, but you can
certainly shame them!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I like that, thank you!

MATT: Yeah, shame!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hey, Matt, nice to see you
again.

MATT: Hey buddy, good to see you.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I work at the local children's
hospital, and I want to, at some point in the

future, introduce Dungeons & Dragons to the
children there. But all I've ever done as a DM is

DM for adults. Do you have any advice for DMing
for children and how young they should be before

they get into it? Also, is it at all possible to
see how Victor the black powder merchant is doing?

(laughter and cheering)

MATT: First part, I'm going to relay what I've
heard from other people. I've run a few games for

kids. Liam has a lot more experience with this.
Sam recently did it. Patrick Rothfuss runs it for

his son. One, the best thing you can do is keep
the math minimal so you can focus on the

narrative. If you're teaching kids math, that's a
different thing, but make it so it's more of a

storytelling thing. The dice roll, maybe a
modifier here and there, but however way you can

simplify the rules. I'm sure there's people online
who have more reduced home rule versions of D&D

for kids if you research enough. I've seen a few
out there; it's pretty cool. Second, steer away

from focusing on the violent combat aspects of it,
and focus more on the problem solving, like

communal problem solving. One thing that Patrick
Rothfuss does for really young kids, I find, is

not give them a weapon. Give them some magical
items and some tools, and it challenges so they

have to think of creative ways to get out of it.
He gave his son no weapons, but gave him a rope

that ties itself, and then put him in a dungeon
area where all he had was his rope. He ended up

using it to tie up monsters, maybe ask them
questions and eventually convince him to help him

out. Then throw the rope up to climb areas where
it was dangerous or use it to wrap around things

he could swing across. Let them become creative
and problem solve without always having to kill

things. As adults, we can keep a difference, but
you're not going to teach a bunch of kids that

"Sometimes the best thing to do is slaughter your
opponent." That's maybe not the best thing to

teach them. Gauge the group to see if they want
high adventure or if they want dark. Liam was

surprised when his daughter and all of her female
friends wanted to play, and he's like, "What do

"you want to play?" and they all went, "Curse of
Strahd!" and he was like, "Okay." The more he ran

it, the more that they were craving some good,
scary horror, and so he felt it out. You feel out

the group at first. You play it soft and see what
they're interested in and then gear it more

towards their style, but simplify it, focus on the
story and narrative. Problem solving and

challenges I think are generally more interesting
than always having combat, although combat can be

fun depending on how old the group is, and be
conscientious about it. Those are a few. The

opposite side, I don't want to confirm anything
because I like to see anybody else's

interpretation. My personal mind-- and I'm not
saying this is canon, because I don't want to kill

anybody else's idea-- I like to imagine in that
final battle, one of the loud explosions that you

heard in Vasselheim was him lining the entirety of
his shop, all of his explosives with a torch in

his hand, (as Victor) "They'll never take me
alive!" and a bunch of cultists come in right for

him, and in that final moment as he lures them all
in, he took them all out with him. That's how I

like to imagine it.

(applause)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Matt, when will Elder Scrolls:
Exandria happen, and will Wildemount be DLC for it?

MATT: I mean, talk to your local Bethesda. That
would be crazy! Pretty cool. I'd love that. Heck

yeah, I'd love that! It's crazy to me that there's
even a book that's out there and it's something I

made up. That's crazy to me, so that, I can't
even. If I think too hard, I'm going to bleed from

my nose. Ugh, aneurysm. I hope so! Hello!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi! My husband and I both DM, but
I think the thing we struggle with most is having

memorable characters, and that's something that
you are absolutely well-known for. What is your

advice on coming up with characters that people
will remember their names four weeks later, that

kind of a thing?

MATT: Right. For one thing, depending on how you
create your character, whether it be

random-rolling for-- Take a low statistic
somewhere interesting in your character, whether

it be super low strength-- they're super weak and
have a hard time getting around. If you want to be

real hardcore Dark Souls-level, go a super low
constitution and be super-- One thing about a

unique character is a serious flaw, or a number of
serious flaws that makes them human. It makes them

easy to connect with. That doesn't necessarily
have to reflect in their statistics, but in the

5th Edition rules, they do a good job of
introducing players to bonds and flaws and

personality traits, and it's a really good
introduction to that. Play up the character you

create. What are their long-term goals? I think is
an important thing so they know at least what

they're eventually driving towards. What's their
short-term goal, what is it they're trying to

accomplish right now, and the use of having this
other party. How are they intending to make this

group of new friends help them get to that goal?
Consider the things that they really don't like

and try to avoid. Is it confrontation with family?
Is it a specific type of creature that they had a

bad experience with, that they're always looking
over their shoulder for, like a bogeyman-type of

thing? Is it they have a fear of public speaking?
Is it an issue with law enforcement? They're like,

"I've dealt with the man!" which will always get
them in trouble, which is fun, too. Find certain

things that you can write down and stick to that
may get your party in trouble. Because, honestly,

some of the best experiences are getting your
party in trouble. Try and find common ground

between the characters. Conflict is good and
that's why a lot of my campaigns, I'll talk to the

players and ask them: If any of you have previous
relationships, what are they? As opposed to having

the awkward we all meet at a table and don't know
each other and introduce ourselves like an AA

meeting, and now we're fighting, adventuring! I
find if you have a little bit of back history that

you develop together, you already come in feeling
stronger connection with those characters, and

that strong connection between the two of you has
the other players wanting to engage more with that

because they want, "Oh, I want that!" There's no
real trick to it, more consider the whole spectrum

of good things about them, bad things about them,
wants, goals, fears, and write them down. It won't

be perfect at first. It's a messy process,
figuring out your character. To be fair, all of us

at the end of the first episode of the new
campaign, we're like, "Okay then! That was better

"than expected." We were all waiting for it to fall
apart, and even then after, we're getting phone

calls from the players like, "Okay. I think I'm
getting an idea now." So it's a process. Those

hopefully might help a little bit. Could be a long
topic.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah, thank you!

MATT: No worries.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, Matt. I'm a newer fan, and
I'm new to tabletop games.

MATT: Welcome!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: And I notice that you recognize
this exceptional cosplay.

MATT: Yes!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: There's several cosplays in the
room, and this being the Critical Role panel, if

possible, before the end of the panel, could we
get everybody get a photo with you so we have all

the cosplays together?

MATT: I think that's a glorious plan.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: All right, thank you.

MATT: (Gilmore voice) Glorious plan.

(applause)

MATT: We'll get the cosplayers up at the end of
the panel for one group photo at the front of the

audience. Awesome.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, Matt!

MATT: Hey, buddy!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: As a DM, I've thrown my fair
share of challenges at my players, like the time I

threw a dragon turtle at you all, and you turned
it into a tortoise.

MATT: That's adorable!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: It still upsets me. Anyways, I
love doing that. I love challenging my players in

fun, creative ways like that, but at times, it
does feel like it's an arms race at times, because

they really like to murder things! What advice
would you have for a DM that's struggling to

challenge the players and have them develop
personalities and adventures like your characters,

that go on for years and years?

MATT: For one thing, it is an arms race in a
weird way, because it's you trying to outsmart

multiple other people as a dungeon master. That's
supervillain territory. That's you going, "These

"are my peers that I respect and love, and we're
all on a very equal playing field as far as

"intellect goes--"

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Let's murder them!

MATT: Yeah. And they're all trying to beat my
stuff! For one thing, it's fun when you have a

group that are all, "We can do a lot of damage!",
you're like, "Oh, that's cool. That doesn't help

if you fight a lot of creatures that you can't
damage." You can only defeat them by discovering

these three relics throughout this area and
destroy them at this one pillar, but while that's

happening, it's stalking them the entire time. The
fear of "We cannot touch this thing." Coming up

with challenges where the creature can only be
damaged if you acquire this one NPC and have them

within a proximity of it because their backstories
are tied, but you have to keep them alive as much

as you're also getting ready to damage this thing.
Coming up with abilities that the creatures can

have that can shut down or convert party members
to its side. Nothing's better than sinking your

party against itself, by the way. It's a
delightful thing. In fact, it's really frustrating

when Grog's berserk ability allows him to ignore
charm effects. I was like, "Ugh! Oh man, it could

"be so much fun! Just want to tear him apart from
the inside." You have to think outside of the box,

and remember, even the creatures in the Player's
Handbook, if you're like, "This creature, I've put

"up against them before, or something similar to
it, and they stomped it." You look at it and go,

"Well, they stomped it because they have a lot of
damage output, this creature, they resist a lot of

"the abilities that it can put on them or
conditions." Nothing's stopping you from

customizing it. Nothing's stopping you from
changing it. Which is great, too, if you have a

group of players that have been playing for a long
time and they already know what creatures can do.

Nothing's better than having them fight something
like, "Don't worry guys, it's resistant to fire!"

Or it's vulnerable to fire, and they do Fireball,
and it's all of a sudden immune. They're like,

"Wait, what?" because suddenly they don't know
where they are. They don't know what's going on.

The real fear creeps into their eyes. Don't be
afraid to customize monsters. Consider encounters

that sometimes cannot be won by sheer damage
output. Sometimes rely on conditions as a

difficulty factor. If a creature has a radial
stun, that's going to mess things up real fast.

Especially if it's on a five- or six-regeneration
thing. Every few rounds or so, all of a sudden,

half of the party is stunned. That sucks. For
them.

(laughter)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you very much, Matt. I
appreciate it.

MATT: No worries. I'm sorry about your party, by
the way.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: It's okay. I live with them.

MATT: Hi!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi! Love your show. Not really a
D&D question, more about you and your team. You

and Travis and everyone did an escape room
together.

MATT: Oh yeah!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: That was awesome, but I want to
know, how did you get into that? How'd that happen?

MATT: We've been a fan of escape rooms anyway, me
and Marisha. We've done a few of them. They were

doing a show for Alpha at the time called "Escape"
where they were asking people to do different

escape rooms, and they had one that was a Harry
Potter sorcery theme. They were like, "Well, get

"the Critical Role people," and we were like,
"Yeah!" Chris Sabat, voice of Vegeta, was in town

and they're like, "Well, get him in!" He's like,
"I don't know what I'm doing," and we're like,

"Great!" It was a fun escape room they invited us
to do, and we totally almost got there and lost at

the very last second, which was frustrating. That
was them asking us to do it from an internal Geek

& Sundry standpoint, but they knew we were fans of
escape rooms. My proposal to Marisha, actually,

was I designed and built an escape room that was
Lovecraft-themed. We were all sneaking, me and

Taliesin and a bunch of a friends were sneaking
off for days at a time. "I had to record, I had

"sessions back-to-back these days. Well, see you
this evening!" Then we'd drive down to Huntington

Beach. This friend of ours had a warehouse, and
we're building flats and getting old furniture and

made an escape room for her. Escape rooms are a
thing we're fans of, but I think I've built the

only one I'll ever build, because they're a pain
in the butt!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you.

MATT: Thank you.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi, Matt.

MATT: Hello!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I have a question about-- I don't
want to be too spoiler-y, but toward the end of

the last campaign, talking about missed
opportunities. That was one of the more visceral,

emotional moments that I've seen in almost
anything.

MATT: I know what you're talking about.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: What's going through your head
both as the DM and as Matt, his friend, when

you're seeing a player go through that kind of
emotional reaction, both as him and as his character?

MATT: Part of that is checking in with the player.
The player involved-- we had many discussions

outside of the game about the possible paths the
character might take. It was very much a, one,

where do you see the character wanting to go? What
are the decisions he'd make based on certain

scenarios, and are you comfortable with pursuing
this regardless of how it turns out? Making sure

that the player was okay with that because, once
again, you want to make sure they're having a good

time, and you don't want to, for the sake of,
"Well, the dice said," completely destroy somebody

who's going through a hard time in their life. You
have to be conscientious of that. Check in with

them, make sure everything's okay, make sure
they're okay with going along with whatever

happens. If they say no, then you can be like,
"Okay, well, maybe we'll take a break from this

"scenario for a little while and come back to it
until you're ready." Or if it's a real scenario,

you can salvage it and-- So a part of you is the
dungeon master. You have to be true to the

narrative, but you also have to be respectful of
your players there and make sure that they're

still having a good time and you're not putting
them in a place that isn't at the time mentally

healthy for them. It's a hard balance, but it's
one that only comes with experience, and making

sure that you still respect the people that are
giving you the time to be part of your story.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you.

MATT: Thank you.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Good to know that locking people
in a room until they accept a proposal is a good idea.

(laughter)

MATT: Works in a lot of scenarios, I find!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I've never DMed anything before,
and I'm trying to set up a low-magic 5E campaign,

so that completely eliminates a lot of classes.
How do I go about fixing any of this?

MATT: You can have a low-magic campaign and have
magic characters. Just consider that they

understand that having magical abilities is
probably very rare and probably very feared. If

it's a world where there's almost no magic and
somebody suddenly throws a Fireball, anybody in

the vicinity's going to be like, "Chain them up.
That's a problem." Consider it can be a very

fugitive-type game where they're trying to keep
their abilities on the DL. They're trying to hide

it from society. You can also consider maybe magic
itself is visceral and dangerous. You can have an

element where if they roll really low on an
attack, like wild magic-wise, and whenever they

cast a spell, roll, and if it goes really badly,
they lose control and it might hurt them. You can

think of narrative reasons as to why magic is
still a dangerous and sparing thing.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Oh, like a Spellplague.

MATT: That can work out, yeah! Are we talking
spell plague, like Warcraft? Like Plague?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Forgotten Realms.

MATT: Okay, there we go. Yes, that can work well.
Oh, Blood Plague is what I was thinking of. Old

WoW players know what I'm talking about. They were
watching the desolation of Ironforge. You can

tailor classes if you want to. You can tell
people-- if you really want no players to be

casters, you can have them multiclass down the
road if magic becomes more prevalent, if they'd be

interested. Or you can reduce the overall damage
of spells if you're keeping combat more tailored,

but that gets a little more fiddly with the
customization, and if this is your first time

DMing, I wouldn't recommend messing with it that
much.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah, I already created two
classes for it.

MATT: Okay, so you're already down the path!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I needed a healing class.

MATT: Fair enough. But then you consider healing--
some abilities may not be spells, they can be

variations to it. For instance, maybe they're an
alchemist. Maybe a Fireball is a giant sphere of

some concoction they made and they throw it and it
explodes and has the same damage and the same

radius, but it's not necessarily magical. Or a
healing spell can be somebody who is a fantastic

field medic and has a bunch of salves and
medicinal herbs that they can jam into their

wounds real fast, and it's a Cure Wounds spell.
You can find ways to tailor existing rules, take

away the narrative magic aspect of it to a certain
extent-- it might be a little unwieldy. In the

higher levels-- Ice Storm! Turn the AC on very
high! By then, maybe there's other ways you can

narratively consider the use of magic in the
world, but those are some ways you can go about

it. I hope that's helpful.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: You already addressed my first
question earlier in the day, so I guess my

question is, early on in the first campaign, you
said, "Make a bear pun, an angel loses its wings."

How can you look at yourself in the mirror after
Honey Heist?

(laughter)

MATT: Look. My wife ran that game. Many of you in
the audience will understand they had no choice.

She was amazing! It was her first time ever
running an RPG! And Honey Heist is a game designed

for bear puns. There's a difference between too
many bear puns in a game that isn't Honey Heist

and being in a Honey Heist where it's practically
in the rule set. I didn't feel too bad about that,

we knew what we were getting into with that.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: She did an amazing job and in all
seriousness, I think I can speak for everybody in

this room when I say how important you and your
players are to our week, every single week.

(applause)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hey. First of all, I want to say
I really appreciate you and all of you guys being

sensitive about spoilers, because I haven't gotten
that far into Critical Role.

MATT: That's why I was being careful.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah. Second thing is a question,
and it is, as a DM and also as a player, how do

you balance planning with your character sheet and
stuff, or DM obviously, versus improv and

off-the-cuff stuff? Just think of it when you're
there?

MATT: That can change either way, often. Part of
what's the thrill of the game is preparation

usually gets thrown out the window as a dungeon
master when the players make contact with your

plans. People always say a plan never survives
contact with the enemy. Same deal when it comes to

running a roleplaying game. The balance for me
preparation-wise is not to prepare too much super

detailed. Because more often than not, you will
end up throwing out the hours of work that you did

for this whole thing that never happened, the
party completely missed. Instead, spend a little

bit of time with bullet points and basic notes
that can give you the general idea of a direction

it can go or a location they can be at. That way
if it doesn't go to, you didn't lose too much time

with it, you can always bring it back later. If
they go to it, you have enough written down that

you can quickly make up the rest, fill in the
gaps, and hope that process allows you to loosely

prepare a lot more possibilities and as such, be
more comfortable. As a player, I mean, your job is

to mess with the dungeon master. Your character
sheet is your preparation, and then you come to

the table and you see how you can fiddle and ruin
their work. (sighing)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I guess then all of the pile of
maps you had is not strictly necessarily.

MATT: Yeah, I know. There's a lot of maps that
never get seen. But at the same time, I would

prefer-- those are all map ideas that I take a
picture of or save in case they come up later in

the campaign or the ideas can be reused, so they
don't all go to waste. And I would prefer to

prepare things just in case and have them go away
then railroad my players to go, "I worked so hard

"on this map, you're going to fight here, dang it!"
It comes with the territory, I suppose. Thank you.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Mr. Mercer, first off, thank you
for streaming. I've never been to a con, I've

never played Dungeons & Dragons.

MATT: Oh, welcome!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I feel like a fangirl. (laughter)
It's not me! So, I was always curious. When I got

hooked in the first campaign, it was right around
the time when Percy died. I happened to be on

Twitch, I was watching it. Yeah, spoilers, sorry
guys. Now everybody's mad. But that night Marisha

seemed distraught and pissed, and I was always
curious what happened after the stream was over.

MATT: Whenever anything intense happens in the
stream, people always make jokes like, "Oh, Matt's

"sleeping on the couch tonight!"

(laughter)

MATT: No, it might be all of us afterward going
and getting a drink if something really emotional

happens. That happens almost every time something
really big happens. We'll all go to Timmy Nolan's,

which is this little Irish pub in Burbank, not too
far from us. We'll all just have a drink, (long

groan), commiserate, but there's never any anger
or frustration outside that. A lot of times it's

in-character, and sometimes it's just frustration
with the scenario, but we all respect each other

too much to direct it at each other. We're lucky
enough that we have a long-term friendship, and

we've played long enough where we don't do that.
That's not always the case at game tables. I've

been in games where people do allow those emotions
to bleed, to directing it at a person outside of

the game, and that's unfortunate and unhealthy,
but those are things you just talk about

afterward. If you notice that happening, go to
that player, go to that dungeon master, and be

like, "Hey, what's up, man? Let's talk this out.
How can we go forward and not let this bother each

"other again? Understand this isn't me, this is the
character." Those conversations can happen.

Thankfully, we don't have that problem, because
we've been through enough together and we all

appreciate and respect each other.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Okay. It just seems like after,
you guys mentioned that whenever somebody died,

you guys all go and get a drink together.

MATT: Yeah, and we do every time something really
crazy happens.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: That's a lot of drinks.

(laughter)

MATT: Oh man, I'm scared for this new campaign.
They're all level two right now. Oh man! Oh boy!

It's so funny, they rolled their characters, and
Liam's like, "I have 12 hit points." I'm like, (cackling)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Swarm of rats!

MATT: Oh man, we had our session zero, the first
hit Laura's character took, she went to zero hit

points, and I was like, "Oh no! Little different
now, isn't it?"

(laughter)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: They're basically gods, right?

MATT: Yeah, basically gods! It's fine, it's great!
I'm sorry.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi! So, I've known you of voice
actor fame before I got into Critical Role. Last

Thursday was actually my first episode.

MATT: Oh, welcome to the chaos!

(applause, cheers)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: So I was wondering if you have
ever been tempted to work in, or have ever

actually done it before, slipped Easter eggs of
past characters that you've voiced into Critical

Role or not?

MATT: I would say I've never tried to slip Easter
eggs outside of the game into it, because I want

to keep it very separate. The more I bring in pop
culture elements, like the side jokes and stuff,

the more I think it can break immersion. I want to
keep it wholly of our own realm. But there will be

character voices that I've used in projects that
will bleed over into it, partially because I like

to voice a lot of characters! There's going to be
a lot of voices that are similar, and a lot of

voices you've already heard. That's a little
frustrating. I'll do a character and I'll be like,

"Yeah, let's have a woodsy kind of farmer type.
I'll do a sort of Southern accent like this." And

everyone's like, "Oh look, it's Adara from
Pillars!" I'm like, "No, all right." That's going

to happen, but generally I try to keep it
separate.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you so much.

MATT: Thank you. All right, we've got about ten
minutes left, so I'm going to try to get through

questions pretty quickly. I'm probably not going
to get through everybody. If I miss you, I'm so

sorry! We're going to try. Question?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hey. I just wanted to ask, after
just finishing the entirety of the first season of

Critical Role, what's your process for creating
deeper and more memorable characters that stick

with the players?

MATT: Honestly, it's hard to force a character to
be beloved by the players. Sometimes, for a lot of

NPCs, you don't expect them to latch on and they
do. So there's no real--

CROWD: Gilmore!

MATT: Gilmore is a perfect example! I never
expected for it to continue that way. But I'm glad

they did, because he is an amazing character.
There's no way to engineer it, necessarily, but as

long as you flesh out NPCs that have a similar
dynamic-- as I said earlier about making your

players more three-dimensional, and having a
series of positive/negative things about them, you

will comfortably begin to portray them as a
dungeon master in a much more realistic way, and

that will read better. If you involve the NPC in a
scenario where they either save the party, or

tremendously help them out of a jam, they're
immediately going to go, "That guy's awesome!

"We're going to go back to that guy!" or "That lady
saved our butt, and we're going to go ahead and

"pull her into this next storyline," so that's
really helpful. Or for villains, also. Not every

villain is black and white. Consider a lot of
enemies or villains don't see themselves as the

villain. Some of the better ones feel like they're
doing it for the right, and nobody else

understands or it's selfish reasons, but for them
are, good for me, bad for many other people.

Thinking about what makes them a three-dimensional
villain makes them a very unique and memorable

villain. Remember, some of the best villains get
away and come back later! Especially if they're

intelligent. Not everything stays to die. Not
everything is like, "I'm going to stay until I'm

"at zero hit points!" (death groans) So they're
like, "I'm at half health. This is not going well.

"Peace!" (poofs) That's frustrating for the party
too, because then you have the, "I'll get you!"

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you.

MATT: No worries.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Matt, how you doing?

MATT: Good, how you doing?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I'm doing great. Thank you for
being an inspiration to myself and all these

amazing people I can now call Critters, because
they are fantastic people!

(cheering)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: We plan to call every single one
of them brother and sister, because of this

awesome community. Thank you. I hope that this
continues on for as long as possible.

MATT: I hope so too.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I DM, I run multiple games. My
Thursday is a game, and then straight to Critical

Role, because it's just all the hype. You
reinvigorate me after maybe a session didn't do

well, or whatever, but it's just so great. So I'd
rather use up my question to tell you thank you so

much, and can you bless my dice?

(cheering, laughter)

MATT: Thank you very much. Good color scheme.
That's a natural 20 on the first roll.

(applause, hollering)

CROWD: Take a picture! Picture!

MATT: Whoo! I love when the dice work for the
narrative! (laughs) I was waiting for it, like,

"This is going to be a one, I know it."

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hey man, so thank you for being
the leader for the tabletop renaissance, you and

everybody in Critical Role. I was there the very
first day that you guys streamed. The minute you

guys finished, I knew we'd just changed history
forever.

MATT: Thank you.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: And because of the renaissance,
I've now been growing my own blog and everything

else, and now I'm actually a big part of the D&D
Twitter community.

MATT: That's great!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah. So I'm actually really
everywhere in there now. I also commented about

your corruption at the tables. (laughs)

MATT: Glad we finally got to put that out there.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I can't believe my Dark Arcana
stuff will need to come out, not like that. I'll

tag you for that one. But I wanted to ask, because
every DM has their own, what kind of DM prep

rituals you go through?

MATT: I have a very specific playlist I listen to
when I'm writing my game. It's a soundtrack that

is a symphonic version of the Chrono Trigger
soundtrack, mixed with symphonic Final Fantasy VI

soundtrack. Those games played such a role in my
youth, in my formative creative years, that just

having those running puts me in the mood to write.
So I'll put that on, the music. I've also found

that Minecraft soundtrack that is now on Spotify
is actually really good writing music too! It's

just nice and atmospheric in the background. Other
than that, rituals involve making sure that my

place is set. I know exactly where everything is
behind my DM screen, I have my dice box here with

the dice in there, I have my folder here, I have
the preparation sheets of the session here, I have

maps to the side, I have platforms over here, I
have a drink here, I have a music setup here, I

have an actual specific layout, that to me the
ritual is placing everything in place before the

game. And if I'm running late, I don't have time,
I'm gonna flip out, and nobody can talk to me!

Like, "Hey Matt, can I just like--" (roars) "No!
Setting it up!" I'm scared how I am at those

times, in hindsight. So the setup ritual is, for
me, definitely a ritual.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: One last thing. I couldn't make
it to the line in time, could I roll a persuasion

check to just get a quick signature?

MATT: Unfortunately, if I do it to one, it opens
up to chaos here, and they have to rush me out

here thereafter. Are you going to be here
tomorrow?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: No, I won't. I have to fly.
After?

MATT: Well, I'll see what I can do. It's a
slippery slope. A lot of people are also in a

similar situation. I want to do as much as I can,
but it gets to a certain point to where it's unwieldy.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: But thanks!

MATT: Thank you, buddy.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hey, Matt.

MATT: Hey, buddy!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Actually, my first question is,
how do you guys remember three hours of your

script every-- No, I'm kidding!

MATT: (laughs) Well, we spend the whole week
rehearsing leading up to it. We got like four

days, we have dress rehearsal on Wednesday, it's
great.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah, so I was going to say, I
actually started DMing because of you guys.

Completely custom world, everything. One of the
things I've struggled with, I've watched DM Tips

and everything, how do you keep track? I'm trying
to keep the game flowing, trying to keep the

narrative going, trying to get my players
involved, and I struggle. They'll ask, "Oh, what's

"this guard's name?" "Oh, his name's Jim." "Okay,
great." How do you keep track of that? If I stop

to write the notes, I feel like I'm slowing the
narrative down sometimes. How do you keep track of

that stuff during the game?

MATT: When the players are talking, especially to
each other, that's where you write down notes. So

when you think up, "That guy's name is Jim." All
right, cool, you meet Jim, you talk about Jim, and

as soon as they're like, "All right, where do we
go next?" Just be like, (quiet mutter) "Jim." Not

necessarily writing in the moment, if you feel
like you need to stay engaged, continue to do so,

and the moment they start talking to each other,
listen, and write a note. Assuming they do it a

lot, just be like, "Oh, they're talking? Cool. Ah
yes!" It's finding the balance of the downtime

when they're all focused on you, that's when you
can go ahead and write your notes.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Awesome. Appreciate it.

MATT: No worries.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: All right, I'm running out of
time. A voice actor that I think would be really

good to be on Critical Role, and that Mary knows:
Steve Blum! Why can't we get him on Critical Role?

MATT: Look, you think we haven't tried? It's
interesting. This has been a unique experience,

since we started the show. A lot of people are not
comfortable streaming their D&D game. We've asked

a lot of people. One of the frustrating things
I've had is we've tried to invite a lot of people

on from different diverse backgrounds and
ethnicities, because we're a bunch of white kids

who play D&D--

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Nerdy-ass voice actors. We get
it.

MATT: Yeah. It's shitty that in order to bring
more diversity into our show, I'd have to fire

friends from our group, and I don't want to do
that. So our guests are an opportunity to bring

more people in, but a lot of people I've reached
out to about it are like, "Nah, I'm good. It's a

"little nerdy for me."

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I hope we're not that
intimidating to them.

MATT: Well no, but for some people it is and I've
noticed that. Steve, very much, he's like, "I

"don't want to do this online." But the more that
it's gone, and the more that people have been more

welcoming in the community, it's been more
positive, it's starting to turn around. Deborah

Ann Woll, who you know from Daredevil and stuff,
we asked her to be a guest two years ago, and she

said no. She said, "This is a personal thing for
me, and going on the internet in front of a lot of

people to flame me for this, I don't want to do
it." I completely understand and respect that.

Since then, she's been like, "It's actually fun."
We've hung out a bit, she's really cool, so I may

try and bring her in for a guest in this season.
So we'll see. It's starting to change, but it's

been a challenge to get people to come in, because
when you're on the internet, you're exposing a lot

of yourself in a space that's improvised and very
open and very sensitive and the internet isn't

always kind. We're trying!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you.

MATT: No worries. Thank you. I think we have time
for one more question. I'm so sorry for those who

didn't make it! I'm so sorry! I apologize, but I
love you all.

(audience sighing, applause)

MATT: Look at this amazing man! Jeffrey?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: You son of a bitch.

(laughter)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I love you, man.

MATT: That's awesome. Hi, buddy!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi. Met you earlier today for the
autograph session, and I said it earlier and I

want to say it again, but I didn't start with
Critical Role or you; a friend actually

recommended me towards Matt Colville, and I saw
his Running the Game series, and that made me see

DMing as less difficult, scary, or so much hard
work. That's what inspired me to actually start

pursuing Dungeons & Dragons again. To start
running the game, and then I found you, and that

inspired the way that I want to DM. Much less
murder hobo and stuff like that, just

storytelling. One thing I've run into that I
find difficult and I wanted to ask was, of all the

voices that you do and the characters that you've
made, how would one get into voice acting to make

those voices, to make these characters feel so
much more unique and their own with the voices

that you do?

MATT: Basically how to develop voices for the
game?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes.

MATT: Practice. Whenever I'm in the shower, whenever I'm
driving my car, whenever I'm by myself, for the

most part (occasionally when Marisha's around),
I'll be improvising, doing impressions, or trying

to come up with weird voices and dialects. I talk
to myself a lot. That's a good place to figure

things out. If you come up with an interesting
voice that you've never done before, you can pull

up your phone and record yourself and you can
listen to it later to replicate it. The more you

practice these different voices, the more
comfortable you are pulling them out at the drop

of a hat. Also, when you write down NPCs or you're
creating characters for your campaign, taking

notes of what kind of voice it is is a really good
reference point whenever you have to go back to

the character. You could write, "low gravelly," or
"high-pitched and reedy," or "cockney accent," or

"really terrible Russian accent." Things that when
you glance at the NPC sheet, you already have a

ballpark idea of where they were before, then you
can jump into it. It comes with experience. It

comes with listening and repeating and trying to
copy other voices out there. Even if you don't

become a good impressionist, in the process of
trying it, you'll find your own unique voices,

different things you didn't know you could do
beforehand. Recording yourself, listening to it,

practicing, and don't be afraid to try them out in
the middle of the campaign. Even if your friends

give you shit for it, they're your friends, it'll
be fine.

[applause]

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I just want to say you're an
inspiration to us all. Thank you for the advice.

MATT: You guys are an inspiration to me!

MIC RUNNER: Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls
of all ages, let's give it up to Matt Mercer!

That's our time for today.

MATT: Thank you!

MIC RUNNER: At this time, I want to ask the
cosplayers: please follow this young lady right

over here. We're going to go backstage real quick.
Cosplayers only.

MATT: You guys are amazing!

MIC RUNNER: The Critical Role cosplayers, sorry.
Critical Role cosplayers, allow me to specify.

Once again, I need all Critical Role cosplayers.
Please come step to the side.

[jazzy piano music]