(cheering)

LAURA: Look at Percy!

MARISHA: We miss you guys!

TRAVIS: We miss you too, man! I like your shirt!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thanks!

(laughter)

MATT: All righty!

LAURA: Can you hear us if we talk?

MATT: Yeah, we can hear you.

AUDIENCE: Yeah! (cheering)

MARISHA: Here, look! We'll break reality. Look at
yourself!

LAURA: Are we big?

(laughter)

MATT: All right! So we don't keep them glued to
their computer for too long, we'll go ahead and

start this panel off, which, by the way, is a
Critical Role panel. Hi everybody!

(cheering)

MATT: Thank you for coming. We're a bunch of
nerdy-ass voice actors who play Dungeons and

Dragons. We have of course the delightful and
gorgeous Marisha Ray.

(cheering)

MATT: Joining us via satellite, we have the
awesome and joyous, beautiful Laura Bailey.

(cheering)

MATT: Then we have the luxurious, beautiful,
gorgeous Travis Willingham.

(cheering)

MATT: Yeah, you got to look at the audience. Much
better.

LAURA: Although I love staring at you two.

MATT: There you go. So yes, welcome, I'm Matt. I
do a thing.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: You do an amazing thing!

MATT: Oh, thank you! So, to begin this panel, I'm
curious, how many here have not watched Critical

Role? Oh, you're going to be real confused.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Spoilers!

LAURA: So confused.

MATT: Hopefully the person dressed as Scanlan is
not the confused person.

(laughter)

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I am so confused at this point.

MATT: Maybe this is true. I would ask also, please
any questions or statements you have, no spoilers.

Many people are at different places in the
storyline, so be careful about things you ask or

say, to make sure as to not spoil it for anybody.
Thank you.

TRAVIS: Whatever. All the characters are dead!

(laughter)

MATT: Damn it, Travis. That being the case, I would
say, first and foremost, if you have any burning

questions for our fantastic dynamic duo over in
Los Angeles right now, go ahead and raise your

hand, and we'll go ahead and call-- right there in
the front row!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: We just started a new campaign
and we're doing evil satires, and in this

campaign, you're kind of on the good side. I
decided to do chaotic neutral. What are some good

tips to go in on that?

(laughter)

MARISHA: Tips for being chaotic neutral?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah, Travis, take it away!

(laughter)

TRAVIS: I would love chaotic neutral. For me, it
is the class that lets you be your most impulsive.

LAURA: Sorry, I was just thinking about the
lights, that's all, keep going.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: I love chaotic neutral because you get to
be impulsive and there's not a lot of things that

fall outside of your alignment as long as it makes
some sort of rational or impulsive sense for your

character. I love chaotic neutral, and if you ever
feel like you need to start doing things along a

more good alignment, or evil alignment, I'm sure
you can change as you go along, but damn, chaotic

neutral's the way to start, believe you me.

MATT: Good question.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you.

MATT: Laura, do you have anything to add since you
had a brief foray with chaotic neutral?

LAURA: (laughs) Am I not still chaotic neutral?

MATT: I think you've make it back to chaotic
good.

LAURA: Spoiler!

(laughter)

LAURA: Well, I don't know. I feel like even when
she was chaotic neutral, Vex wanted to be good.

So I feel like I'm not really smart. Don't show
everybody. I just ate a banana.

(laughter)

MATT: Congratulations. Thank you, good question!
Next question, let's go over-- you, sir, with the

glasses in the back. Yeah, those glasses!

MARISHA: Stand up, so the people on the other end
of the world can see you.

LAURA: Oh, hi!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: This can be extended to all of
you: what do you find is the greatest challenge in

playing your characters and, for you Matt, what do
you find the most challenging about NPCs?

MATT: Okay, so what do you find most challenging
about playing your characters? Laura, Travis, you

guys first.

LAURA: You go first.

TRAVIS: Me first? I always find it hard to play--
it's not hard, it's actually gotten easier to play

a character with low intelligence--

(laughter)

TRAVIS: It's the fun part about playing Grog--
it's like taking all the filters out of your brain

and just reacting with the first thing that
happens to pop in there, as long as it doesn't

offend or piss anybody off. But even then
sometimes you do it. The hardest thing is

remembering that I can't read or that I don't know
what numbers and letters are, things like that.

(laughter)

LAURA: Oh man, I guess the hardest part is
actually sounding like a badass. Like I really

want Vex to be super cool and it's not.

MARISHA: She's super cool! Keyleth thinks she's
super cool.

LAURA: Thanks Keyleth!

MARISHA: Yeah man!

TRAVIS: One liners!

MARISHA: I think you're awesome.

LAURA: It's hard not to trip over your words when
you're trying to sound intelligent also. Like at

the same time because you don't know what you're
about to say, so.

MARISHA: Yeah, that's tough. That's why we all
end up inevitably saying something stupid when

you're trying to sound intelligent, at least once.
You repeat words.

MATT: That's half of Dungeons and Dragons,
though.

(laughter)

MARSHA: Yeah, kind of a similar way, just that
natural impulse because I'm radically different

from Keyleth. Travis and I kind of have that same
kind of "let's just fuck shit up" mentality, so I

have to stop myself sometimes and be like, "No,
Keyleth wouldn't do that. She'd be a good person,"

so yeah.

TRAVIS: I never have that problem.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Yeah. Next character, not going to be
good! No! Tired of this moral compass shit.

(laughter)

MATT: For my part, the hardest part of NPCing is,
one: keeping them all straight in your mind at all

times because there's a lot of characters to keep
track of, so extensive notes help. And, weirdly, a

number of communities online have been keeping
notes of the NPCs, so it's nice to have a

community of people to help me. Someone sent me a
link once like, "Yeah, we've cataloged all

"your NPCs and all their information about them in
this Excel document!" I'm like, "Send me the link, please?"

(laughter)

MATT: And it has been very helpful! But yeah,
that's one of the hardest parts, and the other

part is making sure that you don't end up putting
the players in a situation often where they let

the NPCs talk to each other too much.

MARISHA: That's our favorite!

MATT: No, it's a pain in the ass for me! Because, and part of
running a game is, your players are the heroes,

and although they're not going to be the forefront
of every single story, you want to make sure that

they're still central to it. And if you're not
careful, or you create characters that are more

powerful or capable and more involved in the story
than your party, you might end up in a situation

where the players go, "Oh, well, let those guys
take care of it," and then all of a sudden, you've

become the hero of your own game, which is going
to be very boring for the rest of the players. So

make sure that you give agency enough to the
players where you're not stuck having the NPC the

hero. Good question! Next up, you choose this
one.

MARISHA: Let's do you in the back with the
Gilmore shirt on? Yeah, you!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I was just wondering, you guys
started doing Pathfinder, and you switched for the

show. Do you guys prefer doing Pathfinder or do
you like the switch to Fifth Edition?

MARISHA: Did you guys hear that? The question is,
do we--

LAURA: Yes.

TRAVIS: Totally. I'll be honest, it's been so
long, I think I prefer Fifth Edition. There were

parts of Pathfinder that were good for more
specific--

LAURA: Yeah, I think it was just the actual
switchover was the hard part, because I don't like

change very much, and--

(laughter)

LAURA: Yeah, so it was just hard getting used to
it, and hard going, "Wait a minute, I feel like if

"I had started in 5th edition, I might not have
gone a ranger." Even though I love animals as pets.

ALL: Aww!

MATT: Hi, Charlie!

ALL: Aww!

MATT: Charlie's the best. The best animal
companion you could ever have.

LAURA: Trinket is Charlie's character.

(laughter)

MATT: They're both great systems. I feel when you
have a very large party, like we have, 5th edition

is definitely much more functional. Pathfinder is
great if you like systems that are very

customizable, and you can minutely tweak the kind
of character you want to create, however it does

lend itself to a lot of floating, esoteric math,
and a lot of modifiers from different sources, and

that can get very difficult with larger parties. I
found 5th edition was a little easier to weave the

narrative into the combat, and simplify some of
those mechanics to make it a little better for a

larger scheme like that. I prefer 5th edition over
them both, but only just barely, because I still

played Pathfinder and 3.5 for many years, and I
loved the system a lot, but for my narrative

preference? I'm a much more narrative-based player
than combat system mechanic-based player. If I had

to compare the two, I think 5th edition's more my
speed.

MARISHA: Yeah, 5th edition brought in the
backgrounds, which I thought was really cool and

interesting, especially for people who aren't as
readily familiar with jumping in and role playing,

and coming up with a fully fleshed out backstory
for someone, so I think that was really cool to

help people get inspired in that way that they
brought in 5th edition. What these guys said.

MATT: Yeah. Good question! Next up. Travis, you
want to pick one?

(laughter)

TRAVIS: The one with the hand.

(laughter)

MATT: I'll take that as--

LAURA: I feel like I can point to one, but you
won't know who I'm pointing to.

MATT: That's fine.

LAURA: I'm going to point--

TRAVIS: Point at the camera.

LAURA: Oh, right.

MARISHA: You're pointing at us.

LAURA: This guy in the front row, and then this
guy in the middle that's holding his hand up, hold

up like two fingers, if you know what I'm talking
about.

MATT: Yes, all right, gentleman right there with
the glasses, and the two fingers up. Yes, you.

Laura Bailey just picked you from Los Angeles.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Woohoo!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I was just curious, what positive
changes, other than being able to play every week,

has bringing your home game to the internet given
you?

MATT: Oh yeah.

LAURA: I didn't hear what he said.

MATT: He said, "What other positive changes has
putting our game on the internet given us, outside

"of being able to play more often?"

LAURA: I get more dice.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: She's not kidding. It's a problem.

(laughter)

TRAVIS: It's like not being able to turn away the
animals that come up to your house, with like 300

pets. I like it because we actually semi-know
what we're doing. We played so few and far between

before, that I would have to ask Matt the same 900
questions each time we played. He was like, "Come

"on, man, you got to know your stuff." Doing it
each week, there's less of a chance of that

happening. We still have no idea what we're doing,
at all. But there's just a little bit more

knowledge there.

MATT: That's true. I think that largely the most
positive thing that's come out of doing this is

the community that's stemmed out of it. Our game
is still our game, and we enjoy it thoroughly, and

it's still something that we as friends love to do
together, now on a weekly basis, but the community

that's rallied around this is not only so
supportive and so inclusive, but it's inspired so

many other people to start their own game that
they wouldn't have otherwise. I love how many

people come up to us and send us tweets, and are
like, "This is a picture of our game group, now,

"that meets because we met as fans of the show, and
here's our adventure and our characters," and it's

a very proud papa feel that we have. That all
these people are creating their own stories

together. That's the great thing about this type
of entertainment is, unlike a film or a television

series, this you can watch and be inspired, and
have the exact similar, but totally unique

experience yourself with your friends at home.

MARISHA: Yeah, I mean, you kind of took mine.

MATT: Sorry.

MARISHA: Yeah, each game that we see, where someone's 
like, "We're playing for the first time because of you

"guys!" It's like this little victory, and I mean
it's so overwhelming every time, like there's a

reason why Laura and I cry every time at Critmas.
Because it's overwhelming. Because you get all

these letters, about people saying--

LAURA: And dice! You get all these dice.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Please tell me he's gone to get
it. Yes. We get to see the collection.

LAURA: I have to show off this art. Can you see it?

(applause)

MATT: That's a great piece. That was awesome. All
right, next question? Travis, you pick this one.

TRAVIS: Oh, I pick this one? The guy that's
closest to the middle of the room. Along the

aisle. He's got a black wristwatch or he's doing
something.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: What's the most surprising thing
you've learned about yourself from playing your characters?

MATT: Ooh. What's the most surprising thing you've
learned about yourself playing your characters?

MARISHA: I honestly believe that playing Keyleth
for four or five years now-- how long? I don't

know. However long we've been doing this-- almost
five years. Has made me a more empathetic and

better person. I don't know if I was someone who
inherently tried to think about other people first

before Keyleth. Now she's putting myself in her
shoes. I genuinely think because you always learn

more when you walk a mile in someone else's shoes,
you get that perspective. So I think rolling

someone who is just trying to do the best-- the
most beneficial, good, positive choice every time,

even though there might not be one is
interesting.

MATT: Good answer.

LAURA: Your Keyleth is showing.

MARISHA: Thank you. Sorry, I dropped it on the
floor.

TRAVIS: What about you?

LAURA: No, you go first. I don't know. I don't
have an answer.

TRAVIS: I love chaotic storytelling. One of the
first things that Matt ever told us as a DM was

don't play it safe. Safe is boring. And I love it
when shit goes wrong. I really, really love it

when things go wrong, and we panic, and we try and
make the best of a shit situation. That's my favorite.

(laughter)

LAURA: What was the question?

TRAVIS: What are we most surprised to learn about
ourselves from playing? Maybe that means that I'm

an asshole, but--

(laughter)

MARISHA: You're very resourceful, Travis. You're
probably our best strategist. You just

unfortunately play a stupid character.

(laughter)

LAURA: I'd like to think Grog is street-smart. Just
not book-smart.

MARISHA: Yeah, totally.

MATT: That's the difference between wisdom and intelligence,
you can be a very insightful and naturally

receptive person to the world around you and still
not know anything about it.

LAURA: His wisdom is low too, though.

(laughter)

MATT: It's not low. It's higher than average. It's
like a 12, I think.

TRAVIS: Yeah, it's something like that.

LAURA: It's better than six.

MATT: Yeah. What about you, Laura?

LAURA: I think I've learned that I make a lot of
weird expressions. I hadn't really noticed it,

until we started filming the show, and then I went
back and watched it and I was so embarrassed, the

first one.

TRAVIS: And you have a problem with dice.

(laughter)

MATT: I think my answer is the same as Laura's. I,
on a weekly basis, have the most delightful and

attractive freeze-frames sent to me on Twitter.
It's been great. It has perpetually stomped any

semblance of an ego I could have possibly
mustered. It's made me a very humble person. Oh

yeah. No. It never goes away, guys. It's always
there. There's an entire Tumblr that just posts

that picture every day.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Dude, that means you've made it. That's
like a--

MATT: Made what?!

MARISHA: Dude. You're not web-famous until you're
like sad Keanu. Or like that Facebook that just

posts the same picture of Tobey Maguire crying
every day.

MATT: Okay, do you know what? The fact that I
could exist somewhere between those two makes me

happy. I'm nowhere near as cool as sad Keanu, but
I'm so much better than sad Tobey Maguire. Okay,

so I'm happy with that. Awesome. Next question.
Let's see. Let's get someone from the back. The

giant cat paw over there.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: What are your favorite classes
and races?

MARISHA: Half-elf druid, bitches! Half-elf! No, I
don't know. I have been a half-elf and a druid for

a very long time. So it's hard to say what's going
to be more my favorite. Dwarves are pretty dope.

MATT: Yeah, for me, dwarves are definitely my
favorite race.

LAURA: (Swedish dwarf impression) Oh, hello!

MATT: The awkward Swedish, brain-damaged dwarves are
my favorite.

MARISHA: (Swedish dwarf impression) Welcome to the
city of Kraghammer.

TRAVIS: I like half-orcs.

LAURA: Half-orcs?

TRAVIS: Yeah.

LAURA: What about your class? What's your favorite
class?

TRAVIS: I don't know.

LAURA: I like tieflings a lot. I don't know if I
want to say it because I might want to be them if

Vex dies or ends up leaving for no reason.

(laughter)

MATT: Oh, man. Classes-wise? I tend to lean
towards magic casters because I like the options

of spell use. I think it can be a little
overwhelming at times. I tend to lean towards

cleric or bard. Both underappreciated for a long
time across the board. Bards have definitely come

into their own in the new edition. 5e has made
bards pretty damn powerful, which I like. Clerics

as a support class still don't get the love and,
for how necessary they are for a good functional party.

MARISHA: Oh, we know.

MATT: At large.

LAURA: Bards are just so intimidating. I don't
know how Scanlan does it.

TRAVIS: Oh, to play.

LAURA: To play would be so intimidating! To play a
bard, to have to come up with songs and stuff all

the time.

MATT: You don't have to come up with songs, that's
just Sam being an asshole.

(laughter)

LAURA: The bar is so high now.

MATT: The bard is high.

(booing)

MATT: The panel's over, guys, thanks for coming.
Scanlan's a musician bard, there are different

types of bard. You can be a storytelling bard, you
can be an inspirational leader, a military leader

who inspires through phrases. There's different
ways you can do it, you can grant inspiration die

by just standing in the front lines of an army and
giving your Aragorn speech, "But it is not that

"day!" Everyone goes, "Yay, I take my d12."

(laughter)

LAURA: But paladins do? Don't they have
inspiration stuff like that, or am I making shit up?

MATT: You're making shit up.

MARISHA: Paladins have a thing, they're like,
"Rally! Rabble, rabble, rabble."

LAURA: Yeah, seriously, there's a rally thing!

MATT: No. They have auras that can help people
that are nearby, their presence is helpful.

LAURA: Oh, I'm thinking of Dragon Age!

MATT: Yes, you are. There is actually a feat
called Inspiring Leader where you get to do that

no matter what class you are, which is pretty
fun.

MARISHA: Don't Warcraft paladins kind of have a
same thing too where they can be like (rally cry)?

What's that called?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: That's Diablo.

MARISHA: Oh, it's Diablo. You know what, I can't
keep all of my paladins straight, you guys!

MATT: Awesome, next question. Yeah, Marisha, you
pick this one.

MARISHA: Let's go you right in front in the duck
hat.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Since you're expressing interest
in changing characters or dying off, if one of

them wanted to come in as a chaotic evil, would
you allow it in your campaign?

MATT: I'd allow it.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Even though it's only a
singular?

MATT: If a character wanted to come back as
chaotic evil--

(laughter)

MATT: It's definitely allowed, there would be a
very real conversation of understanding that

introducing a chaotic evil into a largely neutral
to good campaign, there's a high probability that

if you're not very careful, you're going to wind
up dead. It depends, you might take a few party

members out, but if you're one evil guy in a group
of six to seven good people, you're probably going

to die.

MARISHA: You have to be really clever.

MATT: Evil characters, especially lawful evil,
understand the necessity of allies and they keep

that under wraps, then the party doesn't know
you're evil, and you coordinate well and

manipulate your--

(laughter)

MATT: It's a difficult thing, but it can be done.

LAURA: He's writing on his trackpad.

MATT: Perfect. All right, let's go next question.
Let's go over here on the far side.

TRAVIS: We'll do one more question, then we'll let
you guys get to the panel so you're not slogging

us along.

MATT: Okay, well then, do you have a question for
Laura or Travis?

MARISHA: She has one!

MATT: Okay, we'll get to you after this. What's
your question for Laura and Travis before they go?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I know Laura's got a thing for
dice, so does my other half, big time. Travis, how

do you deal with it? Because he drives me crazy.

TRAVIS: Every session, I steal one dice. It's this
slow bleed, this slow drain of dice.

LAURA: No, because he's not allowed to touch my
dice.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Then she buys more to replace
them!

TRAVIS: That's true. It's kind of like plucking
your eyebrow hair, right? You pluck one, and two

more spring out.

LAURA: I don't have as many dice as Wil Wheaton.
When I went over to Wil's house, he literally has

barrels of dice.

MARISHA: What? Are you serious?

LAURA: Oh, I'm serious. The little pink-- like you
guys would know what it looks like-- I have a pink

glittery one that I took from his pile. I was
like, "Ooh!" And I took it and he's like, "Yeah,

"take it. I have barrels of dice." It always rolls
terribly.

MATT: But is he hoarding the dice because he wants
to or because that's how he can keep them from

actually being out in the open? He's trying to
protect the rest of the world from the dice he's touched.

TRAVIS: He's swallowing the sin of the dice.

MATT: You know Wil, the Sin-Eater, the
Sin-Swallower Wheaton.

(laughter)

MATT: You're all dirty people. Guys, do you have
any last parting bits you want to say before we

let you go?

TRAVIS: No.

LAURA: Yes! We love you guys, we're just so sorry
that our flight got canceled.

TRAVIS: Man, weather is stupid, y'all.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Travis, you're missing the beer!

LAURA: Ugh!

TRAVIS: Son of a bitch! I appreciate the beer. We
really wish we could've been there to see you

guys, we were looking forward to it for a long
time. Sucks that Matt and Marisha had to bribe the

airlines to let their plane take off.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Because druids have Control
Weather!

MARISHA: Exactly, I can control weather.

MATT: All right guys, thank you so much for taking
the time, we'll take it from here. Have a

wonderful night!

(cheering and applause)

MARISHA: Thank you guys!

MATT: Thank you, we'll see you soon!

MARISHA: Bye! Oh, I love those guys.

MATT: All right, now that they're gone.

MARISHA: Vic! Oh, hi! How are you?

VIC: Sorry, just have to give a little love to
these guys.

MARISHA: Your shirt is badass. Can we talk for a
second about-- you look like you're ready to

adventure right now. Like your armor is ready to
be thrown on. How are you?

VIC: Sorry!

MARISHA: This is the con where people just come in
and they're like, "Hey guys, just thought I'd come

"by your panel."

VIC: I'm so sorry I missed Travis and Laura too,
oh my god!

MARISHA: You just missed them.

VIC: I saw them on the screen and I was like,
(shouting) "Travis! Laura! It's me!"

MATT: It's like, "Oh, we've got to go now. Bye!"
See you, buddy!

MARISHA: See you later, Vic!

MATT and MARISHA: Bye, Vic!

(cheering and applause)

MATT: That shirt is at least AC 12, I'm pretty
sure.

MARISHA: Definitely.

MATT: Which means he has a low armor class, he's
going to die. That was weird.

(laughter)

MATT: All right, continuing with our panel.

MARISHA: I smell like him now. All right, next
question. Yeah, you had one, right? You were going

to go next.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: We're in a couple of D&D
campaigns right now. We're actually in two. One is

a more straight dungeon-crawl campaign, the other
one's a silly one where it's just goofing off

nonstop. But I want to DM another campaign based
on your book that's going to be coming out. I want

it to be a more story-driven one, a more RP-based
one. Do you have any tips for trying to steer the

players towards that?

MATT: Yes, if you want your campaign to be a
little more story, narrative, role-playing

focused, the first step is talking to the party
about that. You want to talk to the players and be

like, "Hey guys, I would like this game to be more
role-playing heavy. Are you all cool with that?"

Because you can't force the players to play a way
if they don't want to play that way. If you want

to run a game like that and the players don't,
then maybe you need to find other players for that

particular campaign. Otherwise, you're going to
end up pissing each other off, or one side's going

to be unhappy with it. So talk to them, and if
they're all up for the challenge, then discuss how

you plan to do so. Ways you can do that is have
each person develop a stronger backstory for their

character that you can either incorporate into the
narrative, or at least, they have a strong idea of

where their character choices can come from. A fun
way to do this is to challenge them to make a

character that is drastically different from
themselves. Usually when you start playing a game,

it's instinctual to make a character that's
similar to you because it's what you understand

the best, and it's a good introduction to a
role-playing experience because a lot of your

decisions are the kind of decisions you would
make. A fun challenge to make a character that is

very different-- like Marisha making Keyleth was a
ballsy move, very different from you, but it

allows you to--

MARISHA: I thought it was going to be a one-shot!
Was not supposed to last for five years.

MATT: It's very true.

MARISHA: I was like, "I never play good, insecure
people, I should do that."

MATT: Just for one session.

MARISHA: Just once.

MATT: I recommend having that conversation with
people. Then the background helps them decide

where they come from for their character and their
choices. Engaging people in a role-play

standpoint, a lot of it is on the burden of the GM
to directly engage with them as NPCs. There's a

difference between looking at a paper being, "As
you enter the bar, the bartender says, 'Hi, would

"'you like a drink?' So do you guys want to buy
drinks?" The difference going, "As you enter the

"bar, the bartender spins his head towards you, his
eyes meet yours, (gruff voice) 'You! Come sit down

"'at the table! Now, could I get you a drink?'" The
player almost has no choice necessarily except to

answer them as a conversation. I they go, "Well, I
tell them perhaps yes, we'll buy drinks," be like,

"Okay, well then, tell me as your character."
Then, "Yes, we'll be happy to sit down and buy

"drinks!" That little moment has already engaged
them a little bit beyond their comfort zone.

Little moments over time help the players be more
comfortable to play in that space. It is

uncomfortable for a lot of people at first, so you
have to be patient with them, and try your best to

pull them in, and at the end of the session, have
a little post-mortem and ask, "What'd you like

"about it, what you didn't like. Next time, we'll
try a little more of this." Yeah, baby steps,

because for some people, it's not a very
comfortable space to be. If they're willing to

try, then keep pushing it ever so slowly in that
direction, and over time, you'll eventually get to

a better role-playing story.

MARISHA: Yeah, and I always to reiterate that when
we first started our game-- because we'd already

been playing for about two years before we turned
the camera on-- our first game was just that. It

was silly, it was crazy. I remember Laura took to
it, she had never played before, she took to it

like a fish to water. She gets in and she's like,
(Vex impression) "All right lads. Come on, let's

"get in here, let's go kill something." I remember
Liam and Travis being like, "What? What's going

"on? Why are they talking like--?" I remember
Travis being like, "You have an accent? Do I have

"to have a British accent? Does everyone have to
have a British accent?"

(laughter)

MARISHA: He was like, "What are the rules? I don't
know!" Vax and Grog, Vax was such an inherent

prankster, and we're seeing that come out of Vax
again now, but in our early days, it was just how

Vax can prank everyone else in the game. So it was
way more jovial-- we didn't have our first

serious, heavy moment, when tears were shed, was
when Pike died for the first time. That was before

stream, and that was when we started getting a
little bit more serious. We didn't have a lot of

heavy back-and-forth dialogue, deep, intense
character-driven exploration as much, especially

in that first year. It was very jovial, very
light. We were actors, and they were still like,

"What, you want me to-- (sighs) all right, (gruff
voice) 'Yes, bartender...'" It takes time.

MATT: The book comes out right around GenCon. Hope
you like it.

(applause)

MARISHA: It is going to be a really good book.

MATT: It goes into a Silmarillion-like history of
creation, creation myth of Exandria, the immediate

history of Tal'Dorei post the Divergence or the
Calamity. Then it goes into all the geography and

various locations and information about them as story
hooks that you can use in your campaign for a lot

of the locations there. I have a bunch of additional 
Vestiges in the book as well, I have some new backgrounds

that are specific, I have some--

MARISHA: Ashari is a background. We made Ashari a
background.

MATT: There's a misconception that Ashari are all
druids, they're not. They're an entire people-- a

tribe. The druids tend to be the top of hierarchy
because of their nature-based power, but there are

people that are just farmer Ashari, warriors,
protectors, and so Ashari is a background that can

be applied to any class. If you're pretty creative
you can come up with an Ashari warlock but it is

possible. I have new backgrounds based on
different locations, and you can make a member

of the Clasp if you wanted to--

MARISHA: I can think of an Ashari warlock
background right now.

MATT: Look at that, boom. It's done.

MARISHA: Maybe you're a fire Ashari and grew up in
the City of Brass and then you stumbled upon the

rift in the plane, the split between our realm and
theirs, and then you ended up just becoming a part

of the Ashari tribe and living amongst them
because you appreciated them and you were a warlock

first. You could be a warlock Ashari, you could do
it!

MATT: I never said you couldn't! Yes, you can. I've
got more new feats you can try out. Some fun

things. Some new optional rules like different
resurrection rules, the one we use in the campaign

now. Some other optional resurrection rules I put
in there. The corruption system that you saw a

little bit of in Whitestone, that's in the book as
well. It's like a pared down version of the Heroes

of Order book version. It's got some fun stuff.

MARISHA: He does maybe two, three voiceover
sessions a day, comes home, goes in his office,

writes. Wake up, do it again. This has been
for six, nine months.

MATT: It's been unhealthy.

MARISHA: Almost done, though.

MATT: Almost done. I can get back to the gym
again. Thank you, good question. All right, let's

see. I'm going to go ahead and-- When a green
person is pointing at you, you have to choose that

hand. All right, sir, you with the beard.

MARISHA: He basically had a green Bigby's Hand.
Right here.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Fifth edition is not exactly
great for combat as far as large groups of people

going against small numbers of enemies. As a DM, what
is a good way to counteract that with a small

group of enemies? As a player, what are some of the
smaller groups of enemies that have given you guys

more of a challenge?

MATT: Actually, to counter that a bit. Not all
enemies have this, but the legendary actions

system does offset that tremendously. If any
creature you're worried about will be

steamrolled, as a singular or small-scale
opposition, you can add a series of legendary

actions where you can-- usually they have three
legendary actions per round they can do and they

have different attacks they can use at the end of
somebody else's turn, which is pretty useful. Also,

if you have a large party, you can customize some
abilities or add abilities to certain creatures

that can hit multiple characters. Like sweep
attacks that can get things apart or an attack

that has a cone as opposed to a singular target.
Those are cool ways to customize and help out in

that regard. That comes with experience and
figuring it out as you go. I find legendary

actions helps a lot and giving them more mobility,
because when you have a lot of players on the

field, it's hard for creatures to move around
without taking a shit-ton of attacks of

opportunity. You can give them a legendary action
they can spend once that lets them move their speed

without taking attacks of opportunity against
them. Now they have a lot more battlefield

mobility, they can get to places that are
advantageous to them without being smacked by four

PCs as they go by. In fact, there's a GM Tips
episode that talks about that a bit too. But those

are some of my most basic recommendations for
that.

MARISHA: Also, if anyone is not aware, we have a
little sideshow on Geek & Sundry called GM Tips

and you've done the first several.

MATT: We have 16 up and think I have four more
coming up pretty soon.

MARISHA: Then we're going to switch to a
different GM, because you can only learn so much

from one teacher. Right, guys? Other people have
different perspectives. We're going to switch it

up soon, so be on the lookout for that. The GM Tips
is really good for anyone. They're five-minute episodes.

MATT: Yeah, they're quick. They're
bite-sized. They're general tips, and if you want

more nuts and bolts, a good friend of ours, Matt
Colville, has a number of great videos on Youtube,

on his channel. He gets into the real nitty-gritty
of ways to build worlds, encounters, theories, and

running games, as well as players. Highly
recommend that.

MARISHA: Matt's a writer. He writes for
videogames. He works for Turtle Rock a lot. He

wrote Evolve, a lot of the dialogue and stuff for
Evolve, so he knows what he's talking about. He's

a good source. From a player standpoint, to answer
your question, some of the stuff that started

really blowing our minds was when the terrain
started coming into place. The fight in the

Underdark, where if you stood in one place and
didn't move on your turn, then the undead hands

would reach up and start pulling you underground.
That was what started really messing with us, when

there were environmental situations that started
coming into play, because that doesn't always have

to be a bad guy. Matt, you tend to do a lot of
guys in waves. Which is interesting, because

especially as a player, you're like, "These two
bastards, all right." Bam bam bam bam, "All right,

"we only took one hit-- aw, three more are coming?"
(groans)

(laughter)

MATT: Not every battle has every single piece in
the field at once. Sometimes things will surprise

them midway through. Sometimes part of the initial
conflict is actually a distraction for the actual

ambush that's making its way from the opposite
side. Think of ways that you can turn it on the

players' head, where it's not just these chess
pieces versus these chess pieces. You mix up the

encounter structure to keep players confused, and
make them feel threatened, even though it's not

intended to be a full TPK. They could probably win
this battle, but what if the enemies have higher

ground and have the ability to pour hot oil onto
them on the field? A couple of goblins can be

pretty nasty if they have that type of an
advantage, so those are cool little ways to tweak

it as well.

MARISHA: I feel like it's always there are bad
things in tiny packages. You notice it's always

the tiny enemies that you underestimate, like what
was that little brain dude with legs that kept

zapping Grog's intelligence? What were those
called?

MATT: That was the mind--

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Mind Flayer!

MATT: No, it wasn't the Mind Flayer.

MARISHA: No, they were like mind sucker things.

MATT: Sorry, everyone said blah at once.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Brain Devourer!

MATT: Brain Devourer, thank you.

MARISHA: Brain Devourer, yes!

MATT: Yeah, that guy was fun.

MARISHA: Man, those guys.

MATT: DND comes from a long-standing, wonderful
bloodline in history of making things that are

just shitty, and then seeing what you can do about
it. You're like, "Oh, this guy only does six

"damage. But if I miss the saving throw, I'm dead?"
What? What? Gygax is somewhere in heaven, going,

"Hahahahaha".

(laughter)

MATT: Gygax is burning in hell for that. You know
that. He's down there going "Ha, I made them all

"ride in the Tomb of Horrors." Not really, Gygax,
we love you. There are ways of turning the

battlefield pretty quickly based on simple, not
really scary-looking creatures that have one

really terrible ability.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Or doors.

MATT: Doors apparently will fuck up your party, I
discovered.

MARISHA: It's dumb.

(laughter)

MATT: It's not that I make the doors hard--

MARISHA: I know!

MATT: You roll terribly every time.

MARISHA: It's kismet because we've gotten lucky in
several battles where we should have all died. So

I'll take doors. I'll take that as an exchange.

MATT: There was somebody that mentioned to me a
while back, Doordak the Cedar King.

(laugher)

MATT: I was like, that would have been a much
better enemy. Next time. Next question, you take

this one.

MARISHA: Let's see, you also doing the Bigby's
Hand to him. Yeah, you.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Me?

MARISHA: Yeah!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: What is your favorite town/city
that you've been to in DND?

MARISHA: That's a great question. Favorite
town/city, man. Any of the towns in the Feywild

are always crazy and awesome.

MATT: You really only went to one town in the
Feywild.

MARISHA: Yeah, what was it called?

MATT: It was Syngorn.

MARISHA: But Syngorn's not based in the Feywild.
Just the Feywild in general was cool.

MATT: It's a fun place.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Beautiful Pixie town.

MATT: You didn't really visit that so much as
you--

MARISHA: Invaded it, and then killed them all.

(laughter)

MATT: Yeah, yeah. (laughs)

MARISHA: That moment when you realize Vox
Machina's just a fascist regime in the Feywild.

MATT: "Oh, these poor werewolves. Got to help
them." To be fair, the pixies were dicks.

MARISHA: They were being dicks!

MATT: They were. I'm not going to comment on which
side was better than the other, but either choice

would have looked shitty, regardless.

MARISHA: That's true. City of Brass was awesome.
Ank'Harel was incredible. That's all you; that's

not necessarily D&D. City of Brass is D&D.

MATT: City of Brass is D&D, yeah. Ank'Harel-- that
will be in a book sometime in the future, maybe.

If this one does well, then maybe we'll do other
continent. Wildemount, Issylra, and Marquet all are

their own spaces.

MARISHA: What's your favorite city?

MATT: Oh, man. I have a special place in my heart
for a couple of reasons: Sigil. (pronounced "siggle")

(laughter)

MATT: The City of Doors. I like it. As a
Planescape fan, as a person who played Planescape:

Torment and loved the game, loved the whole
setting-- the idea that there is this one city,

this weirdly Inception-like city that folds on
itself in this doughnut pattern that is a central

nexus to all the planes and all the worlds, that
all dimensions connect to and go there to do

business and travel, but it's also guarded by this
mysterious entity called the Lady of Pain, and

nobody fully understands where she came from, but
apparently watches everything in the city, and if

anyone does anything that goes against her rules
of playing it nice in the streets, she'll show up

silently and murder you. So it's a city where
everyone from the Nine Hells, from the Abyss, from

the Prime Material World, they all go there, and
they all hate each other, but they respectfully

nod and do business because they never want to see
the Lady of Pain show up and kill them. And it's

also called Sigil, which is where I learned to
mispronounce the word, and it's the City of Doors,

which has become funny because of you guys.

(laughter)

MARISHA: I want to call my period "the Lady of
Pain".

(laughter, applause)

MARISHA: It's visiting. The Lady of Pain's in
town. All right.

MATT: Next question.

MARISHA: You pick it.

MATT: Okay, I'm going to go way back, hiding
behind the pillar with your hand up in the fuzzy

wrist and wearing an awesome t-shirt.

MARISHA: Yeah, you in the how do you want to do
this shirt! Sorry.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Out of all the characters, who's
your least favorite, and who's your favorite?

MATT: Out of all the NPCs and players?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Even guests.

MATT: Even guests?

(groaning)

MATT: I shouldn't have called on you.

(laughter)

MATT: That's a loaded question. It's an
interesting question. Marisha?

(laughter and applause)

MATT: Favorite and least favorite character. Go.

MARISHA: Hang on. I'm sure I have one. Favorite
and least favorite character. Someone that's...

MATT: Oh, man. (groans)

MARISHA: There's got to be--

MATT: I'm partial to Gilmore.

(cheering)

MATT: He was never intended to be such a central
NPC to the story. He was a fun NPC that they would

come across in Emon when they first visited, and I
fleshed him out to be this fun showman

personality, and they took a shine to him and kept
coming back, and eventually he became this

unexpectedly central character. Even had a
temporary romance with one of the PCs and followed

them into the fiery bowels of a dragon's den. He's
become a really cool, wonderful character that I

connected with immensely, and I'm happy to see that
he survived. There were a couple of times I was

like, "He might not make it. Please make it. The
internet will light me on fire."

(laughter)

MATT: Least favorite: Wil Wheaton, only for his
rolls. I really wanted to see his character do

well. I was like, "Yes. Dwarf! Finally, we have a
dwarf PC in the game. Oh, and he's a fighter!

"Great. He's going to get-- he's doing nothing. And
nothing. Great." At least now we know that the

curse is real.

MARISHA: It's uncanny.

MATT: That blew my fucking mind!

MARISHA: We're not making that shit up, you guys.

MATT: You're like, "Oh, it's scripted." It's like,
"No!"

MARISHA: I've never seen anything like that. He
breaks math. He breaks the law of averages.

MATT: After that episode, four or five string
theory theoretical physicists were in a room

going, "No! No! It's ruined everything!"

MARISHA: "I spent my doctorate on this!" Man.
Least favorite is so hard, because even the people

that you get frustrated with or that you don't
like, it doesn't mean that they're bad characters.

Generally, everyone is so fleshed out and
thorough--

MATT: It's okay. You don't have to spare me.

MARISHA: No, I'm being serious. In game, I've had
altercations with Kima, but she's probably one of

my favorite characters. Raishan was Keyleth's
arch-enemy, but also one of my favorite villains

that we've had to date. Even though she was
frustrating, because you never knew what she'd

say, if it was true or not. Yeah, it's good. It's
tough. I like things that break the

meta-narrative. I don't believe that there is a
100% good vs evil metric system; that's why I love

anti-heroes so much, and I love characters that
break that formula. I feel like most of our

characters in the game do. Not everyone's great,
and not everyone's horrible, either. Everyone has

their motives. That's what's always important:
everyone has their motives. Some of my favorites?

I'm really partial to Allura, but I think it's
because Keyleth is starting to look to her as a

mentor, as an example of leadership and who she
wants to become, so yeah. Allura is great. We've

had some good moments, me and Allura. Yeah. Good
times, me and A. Me and Allie.

MATT: Only Kima gets to call her that.

MARISHA: That's true. Sorry. It's jam town over
there.

[offscreen singing and laughter]

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Only you can hear that!

(laughter)

MATT: The rest of the panel is us awkwardly
dancing to nothing. I'm glad you waited a while!

MARISHA: If only I had a nickel. Yeah, you. You've
been enthusiastic. Yeah, what's up?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I just really started actually
DMing for these guys.

MARISHA: Hey! DM in the house!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I find a problem for me is when I
have a number of NPCs because I quickly lose the

word you use to get into a character's voice, and
I realize that you guys are actors, professional

voice actors, so do you have any tricks for
remembering what an NPC's voice-- even an area of

what their voice is supposed to be?

MATT: Yes, actually. Almost all my NPCs, if
they're not improvised in the moment, where I'll

make a note later, I'll write next to their name.
I'll have their name in bold on whatever my note

sheet is, and then in parentheses and italics next
to it, I'll put a few notes about their voice,

like low, gravelly, slightly off-putting
personality, close parentheses. (shouting) Ian Sinclair!

IAN: An example is when you did Black Butler: Book
of Circus, you had a bunch of people in a certain

town who had the same dialect, yeah?

MATT: Yes, actually.

MARISHA: (accented) Was that north country?

MATT: No, west country.

MARISHA: (accented) Oh, west country?

MATT: Yeah.

MARISHA: Oh.

(laughter and applause)

MARISHA: He's our own personal Kool-Aid man.

MATT: That was the slowest "Oh yeah!"

MARISHA: Oh yeah!

IAN: Oh yeah!

MATT: There it is.

(laughter)

MATT: Yeah, I'll take notes to remind me of that.
High-pitched, reedy, this dialect, if there is

one, or different personality traits. I'll put
quick hand, so when it comes back, I can remind

myself very quickly. Note cards help very well for
that, too.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: What were your notes for Victor?

MATT: Victor was improvised.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: So what notes do you have now for
him?

MATT: The notes I have now for him? I don't need
notes for Victor. Those are NPCs that are so

poignant in your mind, like Gilmore or Allura, or
those guys. I don't need to remember their notes,

necessarily. Victor quickly became one of those.
It's hard to forget that, and the internet made

sure that I would never forget it. That's a huge tool
for me. And if worse comes to worst, if you know

the story is going in a certain place, you can
also record those NPC voices at the end of the

session, a couple of short audio files in your
phone, then before the game when your next session

starts, you can give a quick listen to remind
yourself of the place you were at. Hopefully that

helps. Awesome. (accented) Let's see. I'm going to
pick-- let's go-- oh, there are so many hands!

You, sir. You've been on the side here for a bit.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: If you guys were not playing D&D
or Pathfinder, what game system would you guys

want to play?

MATT: Which, by the way, we are playing D&D
partially because it's what I grew up with, and

it's the mainstay. Because for a lot of these
people, D&D was their first game, D&D is the

easiest entry point. If you tell a bunch of
people, "Hey, guys, let's go play Traveler!"

They'd be like, "I don't know what that is." If
you say, "Dungeons & Dragons," they get an idea,

at least, what they're in for. Especially with 5th
Edition, I've come to really love the new edition.

If it weren't D&D or Pathfinder? Oh, man. I'd love
to run a Call of Cthulhu game. 1920s, original era.

MARISHA: I want to go insane so bad.

MATT: That'd be fun. I love Deadlands as a
setting, too. Got to do the one-shot for that, the

Deadwood one-shot. Which was fun. I got to say all
the things I never get to say on stream.

MARISHA: What's that one where you're basically an
anime character?

MATT: Oh! Exalted. Exalted would be fun, too.
Exalted is crazy. When we say it's like an anime

character, the idea is you build a character who
has abilities that can be made into a combo, and

you get additional benefits for how crazy stupid
the attack was. The crazier you describe it, the

GM's like, "All right, you get two bonus dice
because that shit sounds nuts!"

(laughter)

MATT: That's Exalted. It's great. I love Exalted.
Yeah, so probably Call of Cthulhu, Deadlands, or

Exalted. World of Darkness would be fun, too.
There are so many good systems! It's hard to pick.

They're all their own different flavor. Depends on
what mood you're in, really. Yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah. All right, let's see. Let's do you
with the Overwatch hat. Yeah, you.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I didn't raise my hand. Hi!

MARISHA: That's okay! Hi! Oh, you're like a
samurai.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: My first tabletop game ever was
the premade campaign Castle Ravenloft. It made me

an insanely paranoid player.

MATT: Good.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: If you could pick one premade
campaign that would start somebody off, which

would you pick?

MATT: Oh, man. I would say Curse of Strahd--

AUDIENCE MEMBER: We managed to kill Strahd, by the
way.

MATT: Curse of Strahd's a great one. For anybody
who wants a little bit of gothic horror in their

fantasy tropes, Curse of Strahd or the original
Expedition to Ravenloft are amazing games. I love

those. As far as other ones, I really liked the
political elements of Storm King's Thunder that

came out last year. I felt that giants are an
under-utilized creature that when you think of

giants in fantasy, especially a D&D setting, you
don't get that depth of an idea what their culture

is or what their personality is. Just, "This is a
big guy who has fire! This is a big guy who has

"ice!" So it was really cool for them to bring in
the different cultures and how they intersect, and

the breaking of the Ordning, and the vying for the
top position within that hierarchy of giant

culture, so I thought it was a really cool setting. Chris
Perkins and the team over there did an amazing job

with it. I think Storm King's Thunder is a really
cool setting. It's a little more elaborate and

political at times, so it's a good way to get you
into that type of game if you haven't had that

before. If your gamers are more of a "kick down door, kill
monsters, take loot," it might be not quite their

speed. For that, you'd do maybe the Mines of
Whatever-the-fuck-it's-called.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Phandelver!

MATT: Yes, that one. The Mines of Whatever the
Fuck It's Called! Official title.

MARISHA: I know Eberron's a popular campaign.

MATT: Eberron's a great setting, by the way. Keith
Baker did a great job with the Eberron setting.

MARISHA: That's old-school.

MATT: They have some stuff. The new artificer
class technically originated in the Eberron

setting, though I know Keith Baker wasn't involved
in the development of the new one. But yeah, those

would be my recommendations. All right, let's-- I
have to pick Percy. Sorry. You put a lot of effort

into that.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Thank you! There's been a lot of
serious moments in the campaign so far, especially

lately. For the both of you, what have been your
favorite lighthearted moments?

MATT: Favorite lighthearted moments in the game.

MARISHA: Cows. I will never forget that until the
day I die. Nothing will beat flying cows.

MATT: Not just flying cows, but masquerading as
cows via Seeming and then interrogating cows.

Thinking that cows could be useful to
interrogate.

MARISHA: Then using ourselves as cows as living
bait. Then chasing down somebody, still as cows.

That was great.

MATT: That was the weirdest, unintentional E.T.
parody ever. They're coasting over the moon.

MARISHA: (mooing)

MATT: Oh my god, because the cows are jumping over
the moon, I get it now. Oh my god, it never ends!

That was pretty great. Oh man, the fact that a
party member would stop in the middle of

traversing a duergar stronghold in the Underdark
to take a shit on a bed for no reason. For no

reason! Every pub crawl you guys go on is great.

MARISHA: You could honestly lead this
conversation with anything Sam does.

MATT: Yeah, kind of. He's brilliant. Once again,
why I love bards. The fact that there are ways you

can kill enemies by mocking them to death was one
of the best utility elements in any RPG ever. It's beautiful.

MARISHA: Yeah, I feel like good stuff always
comes-- the spa. When we were in the spa in the

mansion and we did the cannonball contest! That
was awesome, that was fun! I like when we use our

enormous power and strength for petty
competitions. Just great!

MATT: Just because you are the most powerful
heroes in the land doesn't mean you can't still be

a bunch of dumbfucks.

MARISHA: Yeah, we're just a bunch of kids.

MATT: I love it. Awesome. Let's see, let's go way
over there. Yes you, by the wall.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: As a DM, Matt, do you ever wish
you could be a character and somebody else could

DM for a while?

MATT: The question was, as a DM, do I wish I could
play once in a while and somebody else can DM. I

mean, yeah, every now and then, but if I compare
the experience of being a player and a DM,

honestly, I enjoy the experience of running a game
so thoroughly, and being able to provide that

experience for other people, that I prefer DMing
over playing, for me at least. But it is nice to

occasionally get to play in something, and so,
with our campaign, it's a little difficult because

it's an ongoing story and it's not something I can
hand off since I created the whole thing. I know

we've talked about, coming up soon when we finish
the current arcs, you guys tie up some loose ends,

we might take a short, couple-week break from the
main story and maybe have Liam run a game

for us, in which case I could play.

(applause)

MATT: I've had the opportunity to guest on a few
other shows that do live play games like the

RollPlay guys, I've guested a few times on there.
I guested for an Open Legend session over at

HyperRPG. So I've had the opportunity a few times
to play.

MARISHA: And Colville DMed for you not long ago.

MATT: That's true, for us.

MARISHA: Yeah, for me, you, and Liam.

MATT And Fryda Wolff! The female lead voice in the
new Mass Effect: Andromeda, who hadn't booked

that at the time, we were happy to hear she got that.

MARISHA: Yeah!

MATT: Yeah, it happens occasionally. I do miss it,
but if I had to pick, I prefer to GM than play,

really. Which, by the way, let that be a point to
you guys out there who are ever curious about

GMing. Please do it, it's so much fun. It's a
little bit more work on your point, and at first,

it can be a lot to wrap your head around, but once
you get into it, there's nothing quite as

fulfilling as creating an experience for other
people and watching them enjoy it. It's such an

awesome gift.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Watch them die.

MATT: Watch them die, that can happen too.

MARISHA: As I always say, it's your world, we're
just playing in it.

MATT: But you guys also build the story in the
world. That's the thing, people will say, "I love

"what you create for the show!" I'm like, "I create
a stage, everyone else creates the narrative."

It's one of the wonderful things about D&D is that
it's such a collaboration. Each person brings such

an amazing, different type of story to the overall
narrative. Every game that any of us have played

in a roleplaying game, it's everyone making it
together. So I'm just one part of that engine. So

are you! Appreciate your players and players,
appreciate your GMs, please. Good question!

MARISHA: Let's go in the back for the people who
are far in the back. You, the guy who's got the

devil horns up, who I can't see really. Yeah, you!
Hi!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I just wanted to say, since you
guys were talking about how you guys are internet

famous, like having a Tumblr page for you.

MARISHA: That's weird. Keep going.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: You're actually on Snapchat right
now, one of the stories [inaudible]. My question

would be, I want to try to make a city that I
build for my nerd groups feel real for them and

have a texture beyond a bar down the road. What is one
of the things that you do that makes that work for

your campaign?

MATT: It helps, one, to very quickly establish
what makes that city unique against the other ones

they've already encountered.

MARISHA: The question was about giving cities
texture beyond a pub.

MATT: There you go, thank you. So making cities
feel unique to your players. First thing about

what makes it unique. What do you want the players
to think about when they think of this city down

the road? Is it a very militaristic law, everyone
lives under an iron fist and is trying desperately

to eke out what freedoms they can? Then you would
pose that by mentioning how well-armored and how

present the guards are, and how clean the streets
are and how everyone seems to be very eager to do

their job and not stray. Architecture helps too.
If it's a very destitute location, you can talk

about how the streets themselves are not
well-kept. What was once cobblestone has been

broken and cracked and filled with mud. Every cart
seems to have a hard time making its way through

the main thoroughfare. The sound of nearby insects
buzzing ever-presently causes you to feel unrest

in the presence of this city. What I think also
helps too is to think of what the political

structure is in that city. Is it a free republic,
is it an oligarchy and the people that rule the

town are the business heads, and as such, the one
beautiful-looking district is the one that

contains all the guilds and all the money, and the
rest is left to flounder and barely exist? Is it a

monarchy, or is it a committee that runs
everything, and it seems to be a free-spirited,

socialist atmosphere, and what is befalling that
type of a thing as well, so they're infighting

within that cycle now that everyone's equal? Being
in that political structure can be an easy way to

think how the rest of the town functions.
Does everyone work collaboratively, or is everyone

in competition with each other? That can breed an
atmosphere that the players can encounter very

quickly when they enter. So you think of those
notes when you build the city, and then as they

enter it, you find what visually marks it
separately, and the further they begin to talk to

people, you think of what politically and socially
makes it separate and different.

MARISHA: You do such a good job. I feel like we
throw curveballs at you, and you always have an

answer. Like when we were like, "What's the main
underground market here?" You're always like,

"I mean, drugs!" We're like, "How did you-- you
already knew that?" You seem to always know the

underbelly of the city as well.

MATT: That's a good thing to establish, even if
you haven't. When you've built the infrastructure

of a city with all of the things I mentioned
before, the other elements that you hadn't thought

of will be easy to rationally think up on the
spot. Because if it's a really clean, militaristic

city, what is it in that type of atmosphere that
people would be seeking more often than not? It

might be illegal substances, it could be--

MARISHA: Weapons.

MATT: Yeah, weapons, things to defend themselves.
Is there a rebellion within the city that's trying

to eventually overthrow the militaristic
political structure and if so, are they bringing

that trade in? These are all things that you can
improvise once you have enough of the structure in

place, then you rationalize the next step. The
other key to being a DM is when you make shit up,

act like you had it the entire time. Most of
running a game is making shit up. Most of it is,

but if you say it confidently, and the players
don't know, you're the only one who knows.

MARISHA: Like Victor.

MATT: Like Victor! I was like, "Oh yeah, totally
had him designed! No." I'd say a good half of the

NPCs you guys have talked to are all things that I
pulled out of my ass because I didn't know what

you were doing. But if you say it with conviction,
they won't know. But if you do that, write it

down, take notes.

MARISHA: What about when we went to Draconia, the
lead Ravenite's name? What was her name?

AUDIENCE MEMBERS: Tooma!

MARISHA: Tooma! Was she made up?

MATT: I don't know.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Damn it! Never mind. Forget I said
anything.

MATT: No, to answer your question, yes, she was.

MARISHA: Really?

MATT: Yeah. I wasn't expecting you guys to go to
her so soon, and I hadn't finished fleshing out

the specifics of the current Ravenite structure
that was taking over. I was focusing on the

current path that you guys were on. It's always a
chase, it's always trying to develop as much as I

can ahead of them, but also have a life and a
career and, you know, eat, sleep, and breathe

occasionally.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: There will be a bunch of cases where I think
I know where the players are going, and I'll

develop a lot of preparation in this direction,
and then right as it's about to hit, they go this

way. I'm like, "Oh, okay. Let's see where this
goes!"

MARISHA: I will say, this isn't
really spoiler-y, I felt a little bad when we

were like, "Let's go to the Earth Ashari," this
past episode. I could immediately see you being

like, "Yeah? Okay."

MATT: I had to go into my Google Drive--

MARISHA: "Uh-huh, okay. Oh, you're going to go
over? Okay, you guys do that for a second."

MATT: I had to go to the Cliffkeep Mountains
portion of the campaign guide that I had written to go

look up Terrah. That's how it works. A lot of it's
improvisation and trying to play it off like you

had it under control the entire time. All right,
we'll start getting into more lightning-round mode

over here. Not full sincere lightning round, but
we've got to try to get some fast answers so we

can answer a lot more questions.

MARISHA: Sure.

MATT: Because we got a few out there. Let's go
with Scanlan in the back. I mean, I have to.

MARISHA: (singing) Scanlan, Bigby's Hand!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: As a player, what can a GM do to
make a session more dynamic, more fun, fill up the

atmosphere at your table?

MATT: Easy tricks? Music to me always helps build
atmosphere. It's so simple and you can make

playlists for different moods. Great resources are
movie soundtracks. When you stream it online, you

can only have music that you have approval for,
but previously it was Conan the Barbarian

soundtracks, Lord of the Rings soundtrack, all
these great fantasy soundtracks that you know of,

use those! No reason not to. And set playlists
based on if it's a battle theme or a peaceful

theme or if it's a tense theme. That's a really easy
trick. Also, you as the GM, you guide the energy

of the room. If you're lulling, the players will
lull too, so you have to put a little extra energy

into it to make sure that as you're talking,
you're engaging, you're looking players in the

face. You can look at notes, but make sure that if
you have notes in front of you, you take enough

time to look up and still engage. If you're down
here the whole time describing the dungeon they

went into, everyone's going to start checking
their texts. Eye contact makes a big difference,

surprisingly. Keeping them fed. Food's a big deal.
The classic idea of eating Cheetos and drinking

Mountain Dew, it's like, no, that shit worked! For
a reason!

MARISHA: We used to do, back before we streamed,
we would pull 12-hour D&D days, and we would get

together around 10am and we would always start
with a nice brunch and mimosas. So great!

MATT: It's pretty rad, mimosa D&D is greatly
recommended.

MARISHA: Bagels, some yogurt, smoked salmon, and
mimosas. Then you play D&D all day. It's the best.

MATT: If you have players that have a hard time
engaging or paying attention, if they themselves

are doing so almost out of spite, or if you want
them to pay attention more, you can always watch

them as they begin to wander and have something
really bad happen to their characters. "As Joraya

"began to nod off in the sack in the corner, he didn't 
realize his purse strings seem to have been snipped, and

"his coins are all missing. Oops. Maybe you
should've been paying attention, buddy." That also

gets their attention.

MARISHA: Let's do... yeah, you in the red dress.
Yeah, you!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Oh my gosh. Hi, thank you for
coming to a place that is not on the coasts.

MATT: Thank you for having us!

MARISHA: It's on a lake.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: I have two questions, but since I
have to be quick, has real life events in the

world ever affected the campaign and how you've
set it up, and if so, why?

MATT: That's a great question. Has real world
events changed the way we've made the game.

MARISHA: I'd say yes.

MATT: I mean, each one of us as players have
things that happen in our lives that affect how we

play our characters, and if any of us go through a
period of dark reality in our own world, it's hard

to not let that bleed a little into our
characters. That's going to happen.

MARISHA: I think when you're playing a character--
we're in these characters for generally... four

hours a week, it's hard to not let a little bit of
that real-world influence bleed occasionally.

MATT: Which can also be therapeutic, too. Your
frustrations can be worked through in a safe

space, as well. As far as the overarching build of
the campaign... any of the bad stuff that's

happening in the world around us has happened
before, for hundreds and thousands of years of

human civilization's history in different facets,
so all the great stories, all the great conflicts

are all inspired by things that are happening or
have happened before. I can't say that things

aren't influenced by it, but not directly. I'm
not trying to make a statement with any of the

stories. I prefer to make those statements
directly, on social media, because I do have my

own opinions and beliefs, and I wish to inspire
people to stand up for those, as well, regardless

of which side of which spectrum you stand on. I
firmly believe that with the attention we have on

us, we have a responsibility as figures in a space
to at least try and inspire other people to be good

people. Whatever that means to you. I don't build
our story to be any sort of political agenda, by

any means, but I'm sure there's influence,
regardless, because all good stories take

influence from the world around you.

MARISHA: Yeah. That's from a DM stand. I'm sure as
a player, I know-- my therapist, actually, is

fascinated with the game and the way that
sometimes the game will mirror our real lives

unintentionally. For example, my therapist here
recently has been fascinated by the idea as I've

slowly taken on leadership positions at Geek and
Sundry, and she's fascinated that Keyleth is

slowly coming into herself as a leader as she's
completing her Aramente, so my therapist is like,

"Holy shit. Tell me more about your D&D game! I'm
a psych major, and this is insane!" I'm like, "I

"know." I don't think it's any secret that Liam had
a really dark time last year with his mom and

problems in his family, with her being sick. I
think it was definitely a stage that it could be

worked out on. It's hard to not let those dark
thoughts bleed sometimes. It's never intentional.

If anyone hasn't seen The IT Crowd-- by the way, I
noticed your shirt earlier-- there's an amazing

episode of The IT Crowd where they play D&D, and
Roy has just gone through a breakup, and he's

working out that his girlfriend that he recently
broke up with didn't really say goodbye, and he

was left without closure, so he gets that closure
in the game. There are two great episodes, I feel,

in modern sitcom history that do a good job at
showing what D&D is succinctly, and that's the

Community episode of D&D and The IT Crowd episode
of D&D, and I think they show them differently for

both ways. The IT Crowd version shows that
therapeutic element. It's also why I'm a massive

believer in D&D being used in elementary schools
and middle schools and kids who might have social

issues and kids who might be more on the spectrum
and leaning towards autism, because it gives them

a stage and an acceptable, closed, basically
mock-reality situation where they can try their

social techniques and use social dynamics without
real-world consequences, and I think that speaks

volumes. One of the amazing things, harkening back
to a way earlier question about what are the

benefits of bringing the show onto the internet,
is I've talked to so many educators and teachers

and librarians who are now bringing D&D and D&D
clubs to the schools and for kids who might have

more social problems, and the stories that come
back are breathtaking and awe-inspiring of these

kids finding themselves and practicing. Just
practicing without judgment from the real world,

and I love D&D for that reason.

(applause)

MATT: I like to kill dragons. All right, let's see
if we can cruise through some of these questions here.

MARISHA: Keyleth!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: As a DM, how do you prevent
people from metagaming, and as a player, how do

you stop yourself from metagaming?

MATT: Good question. As a GM, how do you keep
people from metagaming? As a player, how do you

stop yourself from metagaming? As a GM, remind
them that they're metagaming and not to do it. If

it begins to happen, you can say, "you don't know
that" or "you actually don't have that

"information, so you can't use that in the
circumstance."

MARISHA: It's generally not intentional.

MATT: It's usually not intentional. There are some
people that might push the boundaries, and if you

do, then you can implement punishments for
metagaming. But talk to them first. Let them know

in the moment. Be like, "technically, you don't
know that" or "you're not there" or "that's

"information that you would not be aware of," and
if you're the player getting this, be like,

"you're right; never mind." Accept it. That's part
of the structure of the narrative, and that's part

of what makes the challenges interesting in the
game is player knowledge and character knowledge

being totally different things. Travis is a great
example. Travis knows a lot more of what's going

on, but he doesn't act on it, because he's dumb in
the game. And it's great!

That's my recommendation. Catch it when it happens
and politely notify, and if they keep pushing the

envelope on that, maybe their character suddenly
has a stroke.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Same thing. It takes practice, I think,
getting through that boundary of "nope, Keyleth

"doesn't know that. I know that. Keyleth doesn't
know that." It takes practice, and it's the same

reason why every single one of us at one point in
time over the 85 episodes we've been streaming

have gone, "I say this-- nope, I'm not there. I'm
not there. Shit. Sorry!" And it's never

intentional. I hope everyone understands that.
Just as much as everyone else can get caught up in

the story, so can we, and it's so easy to be like,
"I-- shit, I'm at a pub. I'm not even there. Never

"mind. Never mind!"

MATT: You always see conversations online after
certain episodes, where people mention it. "Oh,

"so-and-so totally metagamed that, and it really
pisses me off that this player metagames so much."

I'm like, "No, they don't! And if they did, so
what? We're having fun!"

MARISHA: It's weird the way the word metagaming
has become so vilified since we've started. For a

while, you thought the M-word was almost as bad as
the G-word. "Holy shit. I'm sorry! I didn't know

"people are taking this personally." And if you
look inward at yourself, you've probably done it,

too, in your game. By accident. I say try to be
cool. Be aware of it.

MATT: Correct it when it happens.

MARISHA: Yeah.

MATT: All right. Next question. Maybe rapid-fire.
Quick, one-sentence answers here. We'll grab a

bunch. Seven fingers pointing at this gentleman.
All right, fine.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Me? All right. In terms of story
hooks, a lot of people advise against railroading,

but at the other end of the spectrum, sometimes
you need a little guidance in your campaign.

What's an easy way that a DM and a player can find
that middle ground, where people are interested

but are still moving?

MATT: So railroading vs open world? The trick is,
when you create a story, instead of making a

single line that gets you there, make bullet
points. Going to this location, talking to this

NPC, discovering this clue, reading this note,
finding this item, final story beat. That way, you

can plug those bullet points wherever they need to
be. You can still have them explore, but don't feel

like you're locked in and they have to find this
clue at this house. If they end up wandering too

far this direction, have them find the clue at
that house. Still gets them to the same point, but

it gives the players the agency to discover and
still wander and guide their own story. It may go

off the rails for a bit, but you don't want them
to completely wander off and disappear forever.

You can find ways to get them back by still
letting them be the ones that discovered it. Make

certain elements of your story hook or story
plotline flexible and able to plug in at different

places so they still guide where it goes.

MARISHA: Let's do you, since we're not sure which
the fingers were all pointing.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: What caused you to start creating
Exandria, and how long did you work at it before

you felt comfortable actually having a game inside
there?

MARISHA: What caused him to start creating
Exandria, and when did he feel comfortable

revealing it?

MATT: Starting Exandria happened when we finished
our one-shot and everyone went, "Let's play

"again!" I went, "Oh. Okay. I guess I should make
more." I'd only made Stillben. I only made the

single town. That's where it started. It wasn't
Exandria then. It was just Stillben, then

Westruun. I guess I should call this place
something. I'll call it Tal'Dorei. That sounds

fun. Okay, I should make a capital city for
Tal'Dorei. I'll make Emon. So as we kept playing,

and the further they went into the continent, I
began to build places based on where I thought the

story would go next, so it was this slow
connect-the-dots over the years. And then as it

progressed, I kept building parts to it, and
eventually, we had a show. I was like, "Oh shit, I

"have to make this seem like it has cohesiveness. I
should have a little more so I'm prepared and so

"the internet doesn't kill me." I began to expand
from there. I had the name Exandria before we

started streaming, but then I began to mention it,
and people were like, "Oh! I love the world. I'd

"love to play in it someday." I was like, "Oh, that
would be cool, I guess." And Green Ronin was like,

"Hey, Matt. Let's make a book." I was like, "What?
Sure, that sounds like fun. Oh god, I have to

"write that. I have to make all of it." When I
became comfortable releasing it? We'll see at

GenCon. We'll see. We'll see if everyone buys the
book and is like, "This is cool!" or "This is the

"worst!" And I'll be like, "I'm sorry! I tried!"
I hope it's not that case, but it's also my first

book, so we'll see. I hope it's good.

MARISHA: Let's do you in the plaid. Yeah.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: This is directed at Matt, but I
find that as a DM, balancing not only the

difficulty of encounters but classes with each
other is based on that four to six encounters per

day thing, and thematically and story-wise, a lot
of the time that seems like I'm being a dick, being

like, "You can't sleep because I want it to be
balanced." I noticed that you don't do that a lot,

and often, you have fewer encounters per long
rest. I was curious how you balance not only the

difficulty of the encounters but the classes among
each other.

MATT: I think a lot of that depends on party size,
too. The game is generally geared for about four

players. We have more than that. We have seven
players, sometimes eight with a guest. What that

does is it slows combat down, and combat can become
more of a slog if you're throwing in encounters

for the sake of having encounters. For me, I tend
to side more on having fewer, more interesting

battles than having a large series of quick
encounters, which aren't quick even if you try to

make it quick with that many players. It also
depends on what kind of play style you want. If

people like the idea of being more of a "I want to
beat shit up and take things. I want to use my

"class abilities in combat and be a war hero," then
that can work out really well for you to do a

series of rapid encounters and different unique
ways of that type of storytelling. For us, at

least, I prefer to do more of a lean to set-piece
battles, and certain small encounters that can

lead up to it, especially if it's a dungeon crawl
or for Emon, in a recent episode, they bypassed a

bunch of encounters that I'd prepared, but I don't
want to take away from the players for being

clever and bypassing circumstances and force them
into an encounter just because I made it, and

you're going to fight it! I don't think that's a
lot of fun.

So for me, the balance depends on the players,
what they're interested in, and if you feel like

you're throwing in three or four arbitrary battles
and the players are like, "Oh, look. Another orc

"ambush," then maybe you don't need to do that as
much. You're not behooven to the balance of the

system, because you can tweak the system to be
whatever you want it to be. I've tweaked a lot in

our game to make it interesting for what our play
style is. It's just a baseline. All the rules are

guidelines for people that walk into it and need
something to work of off. The more you play and the

more experience you have, you can then take those
guidelines to tweak and move them to better fit

something that is more fun for you and your
players.

MARISHA: Don't you have an episode of GM Tips
that's about making encounters more difficult

without just giving them more hit points?

MATT: Yeah, I suppose. I spoke of that a little
bit, too, and I may talk more on that in the

future. Yeah, the idea that not every creature has
to be so powerful that it has more hit points and

it takes longer. You can increase their damage.
You want to make a battle to go a lot faster but

still feel dangerous? Have an enemy that usually
does 12 points of damage do 24 on a hit.

MARISHA: And like what we were saying earlier, an
enemy that does 12 hit points? That sucks. It

sucks way more if there's pools of lava that are
lapping up next to us, and we might get hit into

the lava at any point by this guy. Literally.

MATT: Yeah, lair actions are not exclusive to
creatures. A lair action could be a terrain

action, if you want to. If you have a battlefield
that has a dangerous element to it, if it has a

roaring lava path or there's a possible landslide
and it's very sensitive, rocky terrain that could

collapse at any time, you can have a counter
where if a player does a certain trigger, oops!

Now the battlefield is partially eroding beneath
you.

MARISHA: Like Vax Dimension Dooring with his cloak
and then pulling a lever, which almost led us all

to our doom. (laughs sarcastically) He still feels
bad about that one. "I'm going to save you guys!" Acid

starts filling up the room. Thanks, Vax! Thanks,
buddy.

MATT: I was like, "This is going to be an
great villain exit moment when he hits the

"button." And nope, their friend's going to do it
for them. That's so much more delicious!

MARISHA: Like face-planting in lava, nothing's
worse than being like, "I'm coming to save you!"

(grunting) Nothing's worse than that. "I'm going
to be a hero--"

MATT: But what a gracious way to die. I think
we've got time for one more question.

MARISHA: And we're signing from 7:30 to 9:30?

OFFSCREEN VOICE: 7:30 to 9:30.

MATT: 7:30 to 9:30 we're signing tonight.

MARISHA: We can go a little bit over. I just have
to pee at some point soon.

MATT and MARISHA: We'll do a couple more.

MARISHA: Oh, there's a panel here at 7:00. Okay,
we'll do a couple more questions. Okay! Yes, you,

with the curly hair. Yeah!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: As a DM, I've had situations
where I've had the big badass guy that they're

going to fight and then they completely destroy
him, completely steamroll him. I was wondering if

there was any situation as a player where you did
that, completely steamrolled somebody that was

supposed to be badass, and as a GM, how can you
stop that?

MATT: As a player, that has definitely happened.

MARISHA: It's so awesome. Every time. I remember--
and I feel like people forget about it a lot, but we

totally avoided an entire encounter when we were
going into the Fire Plane, and then I turned into

a fire elemental and used my Ignan language to be
like, "I'm bigger and better than you. Go back to

"where you came from!" And they were like, "Yeah,
okay," and walked away. We avoided an entire

encounter with a bunch of fire elementals by doing
that. That was dope.

MATT: That was pretty rad, and as far as players,
yeah. I've done it in previous campaigns, and

there is something delightful about the palpable
frustration on the GM's face. Comparatively, if

you've built a lot to it and want the villain to
really make an impact, consider: an intelligent

villain will have an escape path. Not every battle
has to be fought to the bitter end, and a smart

enemy knows that if they're losing to run and come
back later much more prepared. Consider ways to escape.

MARISHA: Unless they're Feebleminded.

(laughter and applause)

MARISHA: I never thought that would work for a
million years. Never thought it would work.

MATT: But that's a perfect example. You don't want
to rob the players of a good, clever victory, too.

If your players do really well and surprise you
and steamroll a powerful guy, good on them! And

let them know, "Wow, you guys really stepped up."
And learn from that adventure, and the next

villain they fight is going to destroy them. But
think of escape mechanisms. Especially if it's a

home-turf advantage for the villain, what could
they have established or built or prepared in that

home turf to better their advantage in the combat?
What happens if all of a sudden they have a way of

closing off half the party, where now they're only
fighting half of the adventurers and the others

are locked away, fighting some other creature
that's in this chamber they got teleported toward,

and they can't go and help until they defeat what
that thing is. That's horrifying for a party,

especially when they've built up their dynamic as
players to work well as a cohesive unit, and you

divide the unit? That's so scary! And awesome as
a GM! So think of those clever villains, what they

could use to their advantage, and how could they
escape if things go poorly, and if they manage to

escape, what are they going to bring back next
time to be sure that it goes in their favor? And

sometimes it doesn't happen. The dice ultimately
run the game, and you have to accept that.

MARISHA: (coughs) Ripley. (coughs)

MATT: Ripley's a perfect example of a really smart
villain that knew exactly what to set up, and it

worked out great and almost killed the entire
party, and it was awesome.

(laughter)

MATT: I was very happy with that encounter.

MARISHA: We fell for every bait.

MATT: You did! Every single step! I couldn't hide
my smile.

MARISHA: Following Percy.

MATT: I know.

MARISHA: All right, let's do you with the peach
phone that you're holding up.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: All right, so my boyfriend's at
home sick with the flu. He really wished he could

be here.

MARISHA: Everyone's sick, man. It's going around.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: The question he has is: How does
everyone in your game have bonus actions, and if it's

homebrew, how do you make it up for the classes
that didn't have bonus actions?

MATT: Generally, if you have something in your
class that can use a bonus action, that's how you

get to it. It's not like everybody has a bonus
action, but certain things can utilize that. We

have a couple of homebrew things. One, we
homebrewed it that potions can be used as a bonus

action as opposed to an action, because nothing's
worse when you have a large party and you

have to wait six or seven player turns and enemy
turns to get to your turn and you're like, "All

"right, cool. I drink a potion. That's it." If
you've waited 30 minutes and that's all you do,

that sucks, so I decided as an option-- which is
one of the things I mentioned in the campaign

guide as one of the optional rules-- adjusting
some things to make combat go faster or have

players feel like they can do more with their
turn, if you're running a faster game or a larger

party. And I also just noticed there's a Dr. McNinja
behind you, and that's awesome. Well done. But

yeah, so that's one. Also, and I toyed with it a
bit, being able to cast--

MARISHA: 2nd-level spells.

MATT: 2nd-level spells, as well as any other spell
in the same round. Usually, as the rules are

written, you can only cast one 1st-level spell or
higher per round, and a cantrip. There's a

metamagic ability that sorcerers have where you can
spend sorcery points to make a quickened spell,

where you can cast a spell that usually takes an
action as a bonus action. You can cast two spells

in one round, but you're still limited that one of
them has to be a cantrip, and the other can be any

type of spell. Well, when you have a lot of
players, as well, that can be frustrating for the

same reasons that the potion is difficult, so I
made it to try it out. You can cast two spells in

the same round, as long as one of them is
2nd-level or lower. That does enable more bonus

actions than would normally be there. So we do
have some homebrew elements that we do put into

the game, partially because I wanted to try them
out and see how it worked, and the system was new

to us, and also because we wanted to keep combat
more useful and let the players feel like they

were doing more with their actual rounds than they
normally do.

MARISHA: Technically, every time I do a Grasping
Vine, I should only be able to do a cantrip, but

that would be lame, so we do Grasping Vine, and I
can do a 2nd-level or lower.

MATT: That's actually one of the feats in the book
that I put in there, an optional feat. If you

don't want to make it a baseline rule in your
game, you can have somebody take the feat, and it

allows them to do that, and it has a prerequisite
as part of it where you have to be a certain level

so you aren't taking the feat at first level and
breaking the game at the lower levels. I found

ways to implement it and balance it.

MARISHA: We're at level 17 now, most of us.

MATT: You're all 16, almost on 17. (singing) You
are 16, going on 17.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Yeah, so we're pretty beefy. I know
that's another thing that's ended up happening,

but when we started the stream, we were level
seven or level eight, but now there's been a

decent amount of new people who have come in and
been like, "Jesus Christ, they're fighting pit

"fiends?" Yeah, we're pretty beefy, at that point.

MATT: Hope that answered your question. All
right.

OFFSCREEN VOICE: All right. Unfortunately, there's
a panel at 7:00.

MATT: Yeah, we've got to clear the room for the
next panel, guys.

MARISHA: This has been good, though!

(cheering and applause)

[music]